# Going Postal

Every child at the school had an assigned chore. ’Gina’s was to mop the
main hall. Unlike the other children, who regarded their chores as an
injustice and did them either grudgingly, poorly, or not at all, ’Gina
looked forward to her chore. She mopped the hall frequently and
thoroughly. She took pride in the quality of the work. It provided her a
comforting sense of attachment to her former life as a maid’s daughter
dwelling in the servants’ quarters. Often, as she mopped and swept, she
would look up to see Miss Bostick standing in the door to her office
quietly watching. To anyone else it would have looked as if Miss Bostick
was simply monitoring ’Gina’s compliance with her assignment, but to
’Gina her expression looked more angry than supervisory.

Today however there was no Miss Bostick in the doorway. With the recent
excitement in Miss Bostick’s classroom ’Gina had gained a reputation in
the school. She was even more sought out by the children of the minor
aristocrats and ambassadors who saw in Janus Kaiserkönig another rung on
the social ladder they wished to climb. ’Gina had more visits, and more
conversations, but instead of making her feel popular they led her to
feel even more her lack of a true friend. ’Gina’s constant sense of
insecurity and threat was magnified. In the beginning it had been
abstract, but now she found herself inspecting each of her conversations
for signs of intrigue or deception. ’Gina baited her chats and inquiries
with traps for treachery. She felt herself sick inside for making jokes
about the Queen on the outside. ’Gina’s new found popularity was very
useful in giving her access to more children and more information, but
it was harmful to her psychology. She noticed that her dresses felt
looser. When the world of deceit became too much, and she needed a
moment of relief and reflection, she found it in the calming rituals of
sweeping, cleaning, and mopping.

Now there was no more dust to sweep. No more mud to mop. To have
continued would have been suspicious. As she was storing the pail and
mop away ’Gina caught a glimpse of Diego walking down the hall. She had
not had many occasions to speak to him. In math class he continued to be
tormented by Miss Bostick, and paradoxically this seemed to make him
ever more compliant. He worked harder to achieve her praise, despite her
clear contempt. ’Gina was puzzled by his behavior, but she recognized
another unhappy soul, and she walked down the hallway after him. ’Gina
saw him enter a room next to Miss Bostick’s office. ’Gina had not had a
chance to explore the administrative rooms, and she thought this might
be a good opportunity. Diego had left the door open, and ’Gina peaked
her head around the corner to see what it was before she entered.

’Gina found a long narrow hall that ended in a small room with wooden
pigeon holes along the back wall and a door on each side. Next to the
door on the right was a a canvas sack the size of a postman’s parcel,
and ’Gina could see letters sticking out its top. ’Gina watched as Diego
took handfuls and quickly sorted them into the various cubbyholes that
must have been assigned for each student. ’Gina did not know that Diego
had been assigned this chore. It used to be done by Helene. ’Gina
wondered what had caused the re-assignment. Helene had seemed happy with
her chore, but ’Gina also knew that several times she had received other
students’ mail, and they had received hers. Perhaps Helene’s
mathematical mind was not well adapted to the details of sorting and
delivery in the way that Diego’s was. In any case, ’Gina thought he
could use a friend, and was preparing to enter and say Hello when she
saw Diego take out one of the large, thick, and royally embossed letters
that was clearly hers. To maintain the ruse that she was the niece of a
woman who believed herself the Queen ’Gina’s false letters from home
came with a Royal presentation. Something made ’Gina pause. Perhaps it
was the break in Diego’s pattern of quickly glancing and sorting. He
stopped when he came to ’Gina’s letter, and moved it slowly in his
hands, apparently double checking the address and seal. Then she saw him
move over to the other door on the opposite wall, and knock. The door
opened shortly after and a hand, the Head Mistress’s hand, reached in
and relieved Diego of the letter. The door closed, and Diego moved away
to grab another fistful of letters for sorting.

’Gina was indignant. It was her mail. Hers’. The Head Mistress had no
right to punish her by delaying her letters or discarding them. Phony
though they were, they were ’Gina’s tie to her old world, her old life,
and all the people she cared about. She would give the Head Mistress a
piece of her mind. ’Gina marched down the hallway, and knocked at the
Head Mistresses door.

“One moment!”

This was a shouted command that came to ’Gina muffled through the thick
door. ’Gina head a lock or bolt slide, and then after another moment,
“Enter!”

’Gina walked in her lips held tight in anger. She looked about for her
letter, but saw nothing. The Head Mistress was sitting in a relaxed
posture behind her desk. A textbook was open in front of her, and a pile
of what seemed to be class worksheets sat next to it. On the window sill
a small alcohol burner flamed, and on top of that a small tea kettle
steamed.

“Hello Miss Kaiserkönig. What a pleasure. What may I do for you?” and
before ’Gina had had a chance to respond the Head Mistress continued.
“Oh. May I offer you a cup of tea? I was about to have one myself?”

This kindness was unexpected, and ’Gina was confused by it. “Yes. Please
Miss Bostick.”

“Good. Let me get us a couple of mugs.” And the Head Mistress rose,
popped out of the room, and came back shortly with two cups, saucers, a
small pitcher of milk and some loose tea on a plate.

’Gina remained befuddled. Why was the Head Mistress being so nice to her
now when she was obviously delaying her mail as some sort of punishment
for speaking out in class? The Head Mistress repeated her earlier
question as she busied herself with the brewing and pouring of the tea.
“So, Miss Kaiserkönig. Again, what may I do for you?” And she handed
’Gina a cup of tea with milk.

’Gina stalled by taking a sip, and as she did she began to wonder why
the Head Mistress would have her tea kettle warming water for a pot of
tea if she did not have a cup and saucer or tea for brewing it? As she
sipped the answer abruptly came to her. If there was no tea supplied
then the steaming kettle was obviously not meant for tea. It thus must
be meant for something else. It was meant, ’Gina realized, for the steam
itself. To steam open her letter. ’Gina felt dizzy for a moment, and
then she mumbled a question about being concerned with her math grade,
and wondered when the test results would be made available.

“I am working on them right now,” replied the Head Mistress, “but I
don’t think you need worry too much. You are one of the top students in
the class, maybe you would be top if we didn’t have that fr.. if we did
not have a girl with Helene’s unique ability. In any case, they will all
be available to be returned next class. Now is there anything else?” And
the Head Mistress actually smiled at her.

The Head Mistress was obviously trying to hide what she had been doing.
She was trying to distract ’Gina by this change in attitude. ’Gina
sipped her tea for something to do, and then said that there was nothing
else and took her leave from the Head Mistress. She began to feel more
angry and more alert as she walked down the hall. Something more was
going on than she had appreciated. The Head Mistress was not simply some
disappointed scholar taking out her failure on her young students, and
she was not simply entertaining herself with arbitrary punishments or
prying into her students’ privacy. The Head Mistress was a calculating
liar who used threats and kindness to manipulate and co-opt others to
help her in whatever it was she was doing. It now seemed to ’Gina that
the Head Mistress was much more than just a mean teacher, or a bad
person. She was “involved.”

The Head Mistress might be her first clue to the source of the threat to
the Queen. To go to such trouble as to read “Janus’s” mail the Head
Mistress must be very suspicious of her. There was only reason to be
that suspicious was if the person themself had something to hide.
Whatever was going on, the Head Mistress was part of it. ’Gina felt more
threatened than ever, but she also felt her mission more important than
before. The threats to her majesty were everywhere: castle, the school,
adults, and children. ’Gina turned to go back upstairs to her room, but
then spun around again and entered the hallway to the mail room. Diego
heard her enter and turned.

“Oh. Hello Janus.”

“Hello Diego. I am expecting a letter from my Aunt. May I have it
please?”

’Gina watched carefully to see how Diego would respond. How much a part
of this plot was he?

His reply came back after very little hesitation. “No. Not today. But
I’ll keep a look out for it, and bring it to you when it comes in.”

Thanking him ’Gina turned and left. She had no real information. No
insight. She had learned though how extensive the threat was. The Queen
was not merely beset by some single agent in her castle. There was a
network, and it penetrated the school where the town’s great and noble
sent their children. It was not the Queen alone who was likely being
spied on, but the whole capital, and through a mean and nefarious avenue
that manipulated and exposed children to harm. Was Diego simply a
misused boy seeking favor with the Head Mistress, or was he truly
involved? ’Gina felt angry at herself for not having detected this
before. She felt exposed. She stalked off to her room. What had before
been her sanctuary she now regarded as a redoubt. Her eyes were full of
unshed tears when she took shelter in her room.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As ’Gina sat in her room she tried to puzzle out the actions of the Head
Mistress and those of Diego. Was he just a confused boy trying to please
the Head Mistress? ’Gina had seen servants act the same way in the
household at home. Or was he in some way part of some plan on the Head
Mistress’s part? And if so, what could it be? She was lost in these
thoughts when there was the light rap on her door that she recognized as
Helene’s.

“Come in.”

Helene peaked around the door as she opened it. Her eyes preceded her
smile. “Hi. I saw you had mail, and so I brought it up.”

“What?” ’Gina asked while taking the offered letter from Helene. “How
did you get this?”

“It was in your mail slot. Diego told me I had some mail. When I went to
get mine (he let’s me go in the mail room on my own) I saw you had a
letter in your slot too, so I brought it up to you. Was that okay?”

“No. It’s fine. Thank you.” ’Gina turned the letter over in her hand,
and looked at the seal on the back. She felt that it was slightly wavy,
as if it had been exposed to moisture, but tearing it open she found
what looked like one of the typical faux updates she received on the
true news of Andalonia. If anyone had access to news from Andalonia they
would find the stories true. They were of no real value to ’Gina, but
she still liked reading the letters and pretending they were from her
mother.

“What will you be doing for the weekend Helene? I am afraid I will have
to study for our French and Math exams next week.”

“Oh. I’ll do that too.”

“No you will not,” ’Gina scolded with a smile. “Maybe French, but we
both know you could teach that math class, and the Head Mistress knows
it too.”

Helene looked down, embarrassed, but with a smile. “There’s something I
wanted to ask you. I hope it’s okay, but maybe, no you don’t have to. I
don’t know what I was ...”

“Helene. Just ask me silly willy.” This made Helene giggle. ’Gina had
felt suspicious when Helene brought her the letter that Diego, her
brother, had given to the Head Mistress and then lied about. But she
could not sustain her feeling. Helene was just too sweet and genuine.
Too easily lost in self-doubt and embarrassment to succeed at
subterfuge. She was not a friend in the way Mietzie was. She was more
like a little sister, and ’Gina began to recognize that her attitude
toward Helene showed some of the same characteristics ’Gina had
witnessed in Albrecht and his siblings.

“Do you want to come to dinner *this* Friday? That’s what I wrote Mama
and Father about. They said it was okay. You could come with me in the
carriage. Or take your own. I don’t know. Is it okay for you to ride in
a carriage without a royal seal? I didn’t think of that. You aren’t
offended are you?”

’Gina laughed. “Of course I am not offended. And I would love to dine
with your family this Friday, it would be such a pleasant distraction
from school. It will put me in a fine mood for my weekend of study to
begin with a family feast. Thank you so much for your kind invitation
too.”

“Oh you’re welcome. I always talk about you at home, and Diego does too,
and my father is always asking questions. It was his idea to invite you
so soon. He said you would probably enjoy a nice home cooked meal, and
we have two wonderful chefs. They can make whatever you want.”

And the two girls spent the next hour planning menus and picking out
’Gina’s outfit for the Friday feast.
