# Her Highness

Almost no one, including most of the royal family, had been in all the
rooms of the Palace. There were two reasons for this: One, it was a
very, very large palace; And two, there were two realms within the
palace. There was the lower realm. It was the servants’ world. It was a
warren of pantries and sculleries; work shops and storage rooms; small
sleeping quarters; and deep and dark basements shuttered behind large,
locked and rusting doors.

*Almost* no one had been in all the rooms of the palace. But the Queen
had. She toured from top to bottom. She inspected. She observed. She did
this not only because it was *her* palace, but because it was also her
family’s *home*, and it was her nation’s trust.

It was on one such tour day, unannounced and unexpected, that a young
child was hurriedly shunted aside and instructed to amuse herself. The
child was directed to a small side room with a small table, a room used
for the occasional servant’s break. It was the room for a quick pipe or
a cup of tea, a bit of gossip or a moan about one’s feet, a communal
sigh or a shared weary silence. The child was given a stub of pencil and
a large piece of butcher’s paper recently used, but mostly unsoiled, and
completely dry. Such things were saved for the young girl. She was used
to being shunted aside and entertaining herself. Her mother’s life at
the Palace was a hard, busy and tiring one.

Absorbed in her art the young girl noticed neither the hush that fell
outside the doorway nor the silhouette of the large figure that filled
that doorway, but she did look up when the figure passed inside the
small room. The young girl cheerfully said, “Oh. Hello.”

The silhouette replied, “Hello to you. What are you doing, may I ask?”

“I am drawing a picture.” After her initial glance up the little girl
had lowered her head and her gaze back down. The little girl knew she
must answer grown-up questions politely, but her work was quite
absorbing.

“Of what are you drawing a picture?” the tall silhouette asked.

“The Boss Lady who runs this place.”

“May I see her?”

The child sat up, and slid her drawing towards the older woman who now
leaned over the table to study it. The woman observed for a moment, and
then straightened up while asking: “Isn’t it unusual that the person in
your picture should be floating in the air when everyone else is on the
ground?”

“No. She’s a highness person.”

“Oh.” the older woman said, and strained to hide her smile. “That makes
sense. But why is she dressed that way?”

The dress of the figure in the drawing was not too easily seen, such was
the young child’s art, but it was clear that it was large, black,
severe, and, one could infer, uncomfortable.

The child replied, “Because she is mean.”

“She is is she?” The Queen’s feelings were not hurt. She knew that life
as a servant, whether for the Queen or for other people, often led to
the occasional bitter feeling that would sour if not expressed. But the
Queen had to suppress another smile when she reflected on the silent
household behind her in the hall listening to their conversation. The
Queen did not intend to prolong their discomfort, and was preparing to
leave the child when she asked one last teasing question. “She looks
like me don’t you think?”

“No.” The child was emphatic. The strength of the rejection surprised
the Queen. This Queen was not often surprised. She enjoyed the feeling.

“Why not? Because I am not a *highness*?” asked the Queen.

“No. Because you’re not mean. You’re nice.” And the young girl smiled at
her.

“And you my dear are a very genuine and pleasant young lady with whom to
speak.”

The young girl beamed. She had never been called a lady before. Only the
upstairs people were *ladies*. She jumped from her chair with a quick
shout of “Mama” as a prelude to sharing the news. Then the young girl
froze. She realized suddenly that she had been speaking with an upstairs
person. The young girl grew afraid. When her moment of startle passed
the young girl ran out of the room to clutch the apron of a young woman
who had been standing quietly by, head bowed.

Her Majesty left the room with a quick word to the aide outside: “Grab
that picture.” The Queen followed the young girl to where she now stood
half hidden by her mother’s apron. With one curious eye the young girl
stared back at the Queen.

The Queen addressed the young girl’s mother. “You have an exceptional
child.” The young mother blushed, but did not otherwise move. “She is
four I would estimate?” There was a slight nod from the young mother.
“When she is 10 I wish to see her again. Do you understand?” Another
short nod, but now the expression changed to one of confusion. “Yes, I
know it would not normally be easy, but this is my secretary Mr.
Goldthread.” The Queen indicated the returning aide who held in his gray
gloved hands the butcher paper art neatly folded. “He has heard my
instructions. He will monitor your daughter’s progress and he will see
to the arrangements. You need only let your superiors know when it is
time, and word will be passed to Mr. Goldthread. He will confirm the
arrangements. Until then, please keep doing what you are doing, because
as a mother you excel, and I know how hard that job is.
Congratulations.”

A rustle passed through the silent, still staff. They found it
increasingly difficult to keep their excitement bottled up. The young
mother could not resist a quick breach of protocol and glanced up
smiling. She was met with a smiling glance down. It was a shared moment
between mothers.

When the Queen finally passed through the last doorway that marked the
border between upstairs and downstairs, and when the echo of the last
latch clicking shut echoed down the silent stairwell, there erupted in
the downstairs hall a loud Hurrah.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The household could now be said to have two Queens: an upstairs Queen -
known as such to the world, and a downstairs’ Queen - one attentively
served by her mother, friends, and all the staff. The little girl had
always been a favorite, but now became favored as well. She was allowed
on late night inspections with valets who taught her the back
passageways and the little known routes for navigating the house. As she
grew the young girl was taught how the men and women of the upstairs
dressed. She learned the names of the strange contents and devices that
comprised the upstairs world, but were seldom seen below. Some days were
kitchen days. On those days the young girl was instructed through
exposure and by example the right way to make preserves, cook geese,
what make a scone worthy of the name, and how to recognize when the
pudding is done by listening to the pitch of the hiss from the steamer.

The growing girl learned mathematics by checking accounts, which were
done by a former cleric, now atheist, who was also a happily married
second butler. This cleric turned butler made teaching the little girl
her ciphers his special project. She was a quick learner, and he soon
moved on to include reading and writing as part of her instruction. The
butler asked a friend who still tended a parish for materials. The
friend sent back a full set of worn, but legible, McGuffey readers.
These gifts to the church would continue doing service in the downstairs
of the Queen’s household. The girl loved the stories. She read through
each of them many times. Once she was done she would begin again. She
could be heard roaming the halls or helping with the dusting while all
the time citing remembered passages from Virgil or the label of Puff’s
Baking Powder. Obedience came naturally to one who wanted so much to
please. Even her diction was a subject for instruction. This was
addressed by Mr. Goldthread on his occasional visits. His passing no
longer disturbed the staff. They now viewed him as an ally in their
project. All the downstairs adults were well aware of when the girl
turned seven. When she passed from eight to nine she could feel the
change too.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When they day came for her official visit she was fussed over and
primped. She wore a beautiful dress that had been made collaboratively
by her mother and the Queen’s own seamstress from scraps of clothing
that were the residue of *upstairs’* projects. The girl was even taught
to stitch the hem herself.

The young girl stood now waiting in the hushed downstairs for Mr.
Goldthread to escort her. Quiet and expressionless Mr.Goldthread arrived
and then guided her to a distant room in the royal family’s private
wing. Now there was no butcher paper with which she could distract
herself. There was no cozy pantry break-room into which she could take
refuge. On this occasion she did not have her hallway of silent friends
and guardians, the downstairs staff, watching and rooting for her. Now
the young girl was alone. She stood still and rigid in her pretty but
itchy new dress. And she waited, all alone, in a very large, very
bright, very quiet room.

Soon there paraded in bouncing and chattering children. They took places
in front of chairs and chaises. They stared at the little girl, or so it
felt to her. The young girl assumed their vigorous whispers were about
her, for she saw that her new dress was pale indeed in comparison to the
finery of the Queen’s own family. Then there was quiet. The Queen
entered. She came and stood before the young girl who, well rehearsed,
went down on one knee and bowed her head. The young girl heard the
command to rise and looked up. Though she had spied the Queen many times
before (on her rounds to help the staff and when exploring back hallways
with under butlers) the face that met her gaze seemed more severe. The
little girl felt the intensity of the Queen’s inspection.

“Hello young lady.” There was only friendliness in the Queen’s greeting,
but the young girl responded only with silence and a bow of her head.
She offered a competent, if miniature, curtsy. The Queen frowned. The
Queen had feared this change. The downstairs staff, with all their well
intentioned preparations, had stifled the girl. Now she feared the
Queen, as did they all. The Queen was angry at how, she thought, they
had turned the free and intelligent child she had so looked forward to
meeting into another respectful living doll.

“Why don’t you speak to me?” the Queen asked with her annoyance evident
in her voice. The girl’s face screwed up in discomfort. One hand wrung
the other. She crossed her legs at the ankle binding herself into
silence. Finally there exploded a huge exhalation. The girl blurted,
“I’m not allowed to talk to you until you give me a mission. He said
it!” Pointing at Mr. Goldthread she clamped herself into silence again.

The Queen turned in confusion to her secretary. Mr. Goldthread said,
“What I told her your Majesty was that she should wait to speak until
she had been given *permission*. I believe she took me a bit too
literally, and we may have lost a rather important syllable.”

With a nod, the Queen turned again to the young girl, “Here is your
mission: speak to me as we did those years before. Do you remember that
at all?”

“Oh yes Majesty. You stole my picture.”

“Yes I did,” said the Queen. The Queen’s children laughed for a moment,
and then they too grew silent when the Queen focused on them in turn her
inspecting gaze. “I apologize for that. I should have asked. Would you
like to do something today to make up for it?”

“We could play?”

“What would we play?”

“Tea!” shouted the young girl with excitement.

“Yes. Let’s all play tea,” answered the Queen. The Queen’s movement was
echoed by all in the room. All moved together towards the tea things.
Unexpectedly the little girl’s lip again began to quiver. Her expression
became fearful.

Now, with an attitude more motherly than regal, the Queen knelt down
before the little girl and put her hands on both the girl’s arms. The
Queen looked the young girl directly in the face and asked in a soft
voice, “What is wrong?”

“I only know how to play with two people,” the girl whispered back.
“That’s all he ever showed me,” And she again pointed at Mr. Goldthread.

“Well,” said the Queen rising again. “Mr. Goldthread has been remiss in
your education,” but she smiled as she said it. “We will rectify that
forthwith. Let us all go to play tea.” And with the small girl’s little
hand inside her own, they walked together to the table.
