# Service

Tea was a chilly affair. ’Gina was escorted and seated, early as usual,
in the empty tea room. Her status as a Queen’s agent had not affected
the formality with which she was treated nor any apparent alteration in
her downstairs status. Slowly the room filled with the Queen’s children.
Polite chatter began. The little ones asked after ’Gina’s cat, Queenie,
who they much preferred to the Mietzie’s fat and pampered one, and ’Gina
told them a short tale involving Cook and some disappearing fish
fillets. Still the conversation did not flow as it usually did. Perhaps
it was the absence of Albrecht and Mietzie that led to the different,
less friendly feeling. Or it may only have been ’Gina who felt Mietzie’s
and Albrecht’s absences as disapproving.

Shortly before the Queen was to appear, Mietzie entered with Albrecht
providing encouragement from behind (in a non-royal household it would
have been called “pushing“). Mietzie began to walk toward the chair
furthest from ’Gina, and it was only when Albrecht cleared his throat
with a noise like a cannon shot that Mietzie redirected course and took
the one on ’Gina’s side. After a moment Mietzie leaned in and could be
seen whispering into ’Gina’s ear with animation and emotion. After which
’Gina gave a small, sad shake of her head. Mietzie made an audible
“harrumph!” and staring straight at Albrecht got up and began to march
toward an open chair on the opposite side of the tea circle. She was
pointedly ignoring the hive like humming that was Albrecht’s repeated,
loud, and ineffectual throat clearings.

It was into this syncopated contest of discontented grunting that the
Queen made her entrance with Mr. Goldthread by her side. All grew
silent, and the children all stood, except for ’Gina who bowed with her
head held low. The Queen took in the situation with her glance, but
ignored it. “Sit Children, please.” With this invitation servants
appeared to pour the tea, and Albrecht exchanged a look and a shrug with
his Mother who slightly shook her head. The Queen initiated
conversations with questions, and all were answered politely, but no
response led to further comments and the tea took the tenor of a
magistrate’s inquiry.

The Queen was regal. She was cool, and contained. She sipped her tea in
a relaxed and elegant fashion. She too inquired after Queenie (she too
preferred Queenie to Mietzie’s fat, spoiled Chevalier. In fact, other
than Mietzie, it was only ‘Gina who liked Chevalier, and only ’Gina that
Chevalier allowed to pick him up (besides Mietzie of course)). After the
Queen had finished her cup of tea, taken a bite of a *petit four* and
then one taste of a cucumber sandwich ala Oscar Wilde, she felt that her
obligation to appear unhurried, and unprovoked had been met. The Queen
suggested an early end to today’s tea with the statement “There is still
much royal work to be done today children. Perhaps you will allow an
early adjournment?” Of course, one only assented to the Queen’s queries,
but on this occasion the agreeing nods of the children were sincere. The
Queen stood and made eye contact with Albrecht who returned it with
something approaching a glower. The Queen gave a slight nod, and a
slighter sigh. “Mietzie, ’Gina. Remain a moment won’t you.” Then with a
look over her shoulder she some how provoked Mr. Goldthread into
producing the assorted nanny’s and tutors that supervised the remaining
children to appear and fetch their charges away. Albrecht too remained,
and the Queen noted this, but said nothing.

“Please sit. Children,” the Queen said. Albrecht remained standing to
the side while Mietzie and ’Gina each sat in their places at the far
arcs of the tea circle seating.

The Queen looked at Albrecht, who gave a nod toward Mietzie. The Queen
glanced at her daughter, but then turned and spoke first to ’Gina. “You
do keep your secrets, don’t you,” and then with a bit of annoyance
creeping in, “And what is going on with you Mietzie?”

“She’s keeping secrets from me. I ordered her to tell me. And she has to
do what I order because I am a Princess and she is... She is ... Well!
You need to punish her!”

“Punishing ’Gina is not the first thing that comes to mind,” the Queen
replied icily, “You are the one in need of lessons I am afraid. And...”
she paused, continuing with a calmer voice, “but the responsibility is
mine. You do as I do. You spoil your cat, because I spoil you. You feel
entitled, because I have taught you to feel entitled. I have made your
brother see the responsibilities that come with his privileges, but I
share with you only the expectations of obedience, never the obligation
to serve.”

“To serve? You never serve.” Mietzie replied. ’Gina squirmed. She was
not used to, and was made uncomfortable by, seeing this family squabble.
She had the thought to excuse herself, when the clairvoyant Mr.
Goldthread stilled her motion before it began with a light tapping of
his knee on her chair.

“I only serve!” the Queen boomed. “I serve my family. I serve in my
position. I serve my country. You serve only yourself.”

“Mother.” Albrecht said.

The Queen quickly turned on him, but on seeing him relaxed her knotted
shoulders, and smiled. “You are the better part of both your Father and
me.” then turning to Mietzie. “Mietzie. ’Gina has done what I commanded.
I told her something, and bade her not repeat it, and that she has done.
You could have used a bit more of your deductive talents, which I know
you to have, and pondered why ’Gina was not obeying your order? First,
why would a *commoner* deny you, but more importantly why would your
friend not confide in you? Having thought on that you would have
recognized there was more to understand, even if you could not determine
what it was. Here is today’s lesson: respond to your confusion with
reflection rather than reflex. And here is today’s advice: friends for
royals are few and far between, do not take them lightly.” Then turning
back to Albrecht she asked, “Well?”

“Tell her Mother, I think. It will make ’Gina’s life easier to not have
Mietzie feuding with her at this point. She can use her friend back too,
I think, and it just might help Mietzie learn your lesson. I think
Mietzie might do better if you gave her more opportunities to
demonstrate it.”

Mietzie stood up straighter, and looked at her brother appreciatively.
It was true, she thought, she did want to do things. It was just that
there wasn’t much for her to do, but get dressed, go to lessons, teas,
parties, military ceremonies, music lessons, riding parties, and visits
to distant cousins who spoke guttural tongues, and slurped their tea.

“I have assigner her a ... mission.” the Queen announced.

Mietzie looked straight at ’Gina and immediately flushed red with anger.
Her mouth opened in preparation to protest, but then her better nature
made her pause, and she thought about Mother’s reflex and reflect. Why
would her Mother give ’Gina a mission and not her? Why could no one
speak of it? Why must no one know about it, even her and her siblings?
And as long as she was wondering at things new and unexplained, why was
her Mother staying up so late, and appearing so fatigued and tired, and
why had she stopped eating breakfast, and why had her meetings with Mr.
Goldthread and her other advisers lengthened?

Mietzie spoke again. Calmly. “It’s important, and...” she paused in
thought again and then the connection sparked, “it’s dangerous!” Then
reflex overrode reflection and Mietzie ran to ’Gina and hugged her. “You
can do it.” she said. “You’re so clever, and honorable. I know you can
do it. Whatever it is. What is it Mother? Let me help Mother. Please?”

And then even though no one had seen or heard any movement, the Queen
asked, “Well Goldthread. Out with it. I can see you’re about to burst
wanting to say something.”

Mr. Goldthread replied in his consistent, sonorous and calm voice. “I
believe Prince Albrecht has a suggestion.”

“I do?” Albrecht looked deeply puzzled.

“I believe you do Sir,” Mr. Goldthread continued. “I distinctly remember
you remarking that the status of Regina’s impersonation would be
significantly enhanced by having at least one servant permanently
resident with her.”

“Well, I did say that, and I think it’s true, but I do not see what that
has to do with ... OH!” and then more speaking to himself than the
others, “Mietzie? Really? Well why not? It could be a good learning
experience for Mietzie.” then, louder, to the others. “Yes, Why not?
Mietzie could go as ’Gina’s servant.”

“Really? That’s quite impossible. She would be immediately recog...” the
Queen broke off, and made eye contact with Mr. Goldthread. “Yes, on
reflection.” with a nod to Mietzie, “maybe it could work after all. Yes
Albrecht, maybe it could work.”

“Of course it could work!” Mietzie exulted, then asked, “What could work
exactly?”

’Gina turned to her. “I am going to be sent to school. Le Grande Ecole
Camford. I am going disguised as the rich daughter of one of your
Mother’s cousins. There are some things I am supposed to learn there.”

“Well of course you’ll learn things at school, but why...Oh! *learn*
there. I get it. You’re going to be a spy!”

“I think not.” the Queen interjected. “Better one say an observer. There
will be no skulduggery or escapades. Regina will be entirely a student,
and like all students will work and study and play. It is perhaps
possible that she may hear some gossip that she believes may be of
interest to me, but she is not, and I repeat not,” here with a stony
stare at ’Gina, “to go investigating.”

“This will be such fun.” said Mietzie. “We will have such fun together.
I will be ever so helpful as your servant, and in your not
investigating.”

“What do you know about being a servant Mietzie? You have enough trouble
behaving like a Princess.” Albrecht added.

“Right you are Albrecht“ said the Queen.”And given your analysis of the
situation, and since it was after all, and to your credit, your idea, I
charge you with the supervision of Mietzie’s lessons in basic servitude.
Please keep me fully informed of her progress.”
