# Another Tea

Remarkably ’Gina managed to fall asleep briefly on the horse ride to the
castle. The first time she began to slip off the horse. Hans barely
managed to grab her. Then he switched positions so as to have her
sitting in front of him. exhausted from her travels, and still with the
effects of knock out drops, ‘Gina was rocked by the galloping horse into
a semi-slumber. Always, when she awoke, there was the same thought: What
is the plot? How do I protect Her Majesty?

The heightened security at the castle, and their rapidly approaching
dust cloud, led to them being expected. Rather than the stables, Hans
rode the galloping horse directly to the servants’ door at the castle’s
back. ’Gina heard her mother’s shouts of “Baby Girl. Where is my baby
girl?” long before she saw her. When ’Gina jumped from the horse to run
to her Mother ’Gina saw, in addition to her Mother, Mr. Goldthread, the
Queen, several soldiers, and a few Swiss Guards she had not met. While
Mother and daughter hugged Hans conferred with the Queen, Mr.
Goldthread, and the Swiss Guard’s commandant.

Mr. Goldthread broke from the group to walk toward ’Gina. Seeing him
over her mother’s shoulder she began shouting, while still hugging her
mother: “A plot Mr. Goldthread! Jimmie has planned something against the
Queen, that is why ...”

Mr. Goldthread interrupted. “Quite right young lady. Herr Gafner has
told us as much, but what is the plot? What are we to defend against?”

’Gina broke from her mother’s hug, but still held her hand. She turned
to face Mr. Goldthread, and saw that all the others were staring
silently at her - including the Queen, whom, in the excitement of her
reunion with her mother, she had forgotten was there. ’Gina dropped to
her knee. “So sorry Your Majesty. In the excitement I forgot.”

“No time for that now ’Gina. No ceremony on the battlefield. What is the
plot against which we must prepare?”

’Gina rose and stared back, paused, and then moaned loudly “I don’t
know!”

The Queen walked toward ’Gina and extended both her hands to ’Gina.
“Dear,” ’Gina took the Queen’s two hands in her own and looked up at
this Woman, this Ruler, this Mother who was glancing now at the dirty,
stained, caked strip of cloth that wrapped ’Gina’s little finger. “You
have done so much for me. So much for your country. I came to you with
suspicions of espionage, and put you where I thought a stray word might
come your way and help me deduce the source of leaks. I did not expect
you to be so successful in exposing and collapsing all, and to do so
when you were under such risk, and when you were where you would suffer
so much for your intelligence and your patriotism. suffered so much. It
is enough that we know that there is a plot. All that we owe to you. Do
not fret, and do not doubt your accomplishment ...”

Somewhere in the course of the Queen’s complimentary speech ’Gina’s mind
had begun to wander. Although he was standing in front of her, ’Gina
felt as if Mr. Goldthread’s knee had jostled her chair one more time,
goading her on. Those watching saw ’Gina’s head tip back slightly and
her gaze go up and far away, she began to mumble out loud, which the
Queen, lost in her oratory, had not noticing ’Gina’s reverie, continued
“... which has been ever so much more than ...”

While ’Gina softly said, “... a plot ... here at the castle. That’s what
he said. That’s why he wanted to distract the guards and soldiers into
coming after me. Here at the castle, but what is it? The castle is a
safe hold, and so it must be different. Something must be different. We
must find that difference.” Then louder, ignorant of the fact that the
Queen was still talking and praising her she said loudly, “Mother!”

The Queen was not used to being interrupted, but she had come to know
’Gina well and excused her creative bursts. ’Gina spun around, saying
again, “Mother. Mr. Goldthread. We know that whatever is to happen is to
happen here. We know that because Jimmie went to so much trouble to draw
the Guards away. Despite that, we know it cannot be anything as simple
as a direct attack. His team was too small. There are no armies on the
way. Herr Gafner and I would have seen something. And Jimmie was a spy,
a subtle man. We know therefore that something is happening here, and
that it is a threat, and like everything Jimmie has done, a secret and
hidden, and possibly just like him, in plain sight; if we only knew what
to look for. And Mother, who knows what the castle should look like best
of all?”

“We do. The staff do!”

On hearing this Mr. Goldthread began to move quickly towards the castle.
The Queen, Hans, ’Gina, and her mother followed. They found the
surprisingly quick Mr. Goldthread already in the bell room jangling
every bell loudly and randomly. Servants came running from all
directions. “Bring me the head maid and head butler now!” He commanded
them, and the downstairs staff that had responded immediately ran away
again.

Within moments the head of the domestic staff appeared and Mr.
Goldthread gave them a quick and succinct charge. A threat had been made
against the Queen. It came from an unknown source, and was by an unknown
method. But whatever source, and by whatever method, it would be via a
route and mechanism distinct from standard household practices. No one
knew their jobs, their procedures, their household better than the
Queen’s personnel. They must command that each person with a diligence
unnaturally enhanced and elaborated inspect and evaluate every quarter
of the castle that fell under their experience and responsibility and
report any anomaly - on this point Mr. Goldthread’s voice was booming
and he repeated - ANY ANOMALY. No matter how small or apparently
insignificant each must be reported to him. In response, and giving
evidence of the staff’s professionalism and preparation, there were no
questions. The Heads of household turned and immediately began
dispensing down their hierarchy orders and priorities, and establishing
the chain for reporting.

Mr. Goldthread turned at this point to ’Gina’s mother, but before he
could speak to her, she had already begun speaking to ’Gina. “My love.
Oh how I worried and missed you, and I can’t believe it, but I have to
go. My duty here is clear. I must do my part.” She kissed ’Gina quickly
on the cheek, and hearing her voice called with a military clarity she
responded, “Here,” and walked out of the room with no hesitation. Mr.
Goldthread redirected himself and speaking communally suggested that the
Queen, ’Gina, and Hans would be in the way here, and that the business
would be done more effectively if they removed themselves, and he guided
the party away. As he did so the Queen put an arm around ’Gina’s
shoulder and pulled her close to ask in a whisper, “Do you have news of
Albrecht?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

They sat in a small parlor near the Queen’s war room. It was down the
hall from where, so recently but seemingly so long ago, ’Gina and the
Royal Family had taken tea together. The Queen pretended to read, and
had given ’Gina a book from Albrecht’s collection to distract her. The
Queen’s choice had been random, and she did so without looking at the
title. It was Robert Louis Stevenson’s *Kidnapped*. Even if the choice
had not been so inapt, ’Gina would still have not been able to read. She
was still distracted by trying to puzzle out the plot. ’Gina started at
every creak that might be the approach of news. She did not think she
was alone in her distraction. Only Hans remained still and apparently
relaxed in his vigilant posture by the door. Mr. Goldthread paced back
and forth, back and forth, behind their chairs, while the Queen never
seemed to move her reading beyond its current page. She idly rotated the
jeweled snake that encircled her wrist.

Periodically reports did come, but they were always negative. The staff
had sectioned the house into floors and regions of floors into
individual responsibilities. The investigation had begun with those
rooms nearest to the Queen and her family. Staff who dusted looked for
dust where there should be none, and looked for no dust where they knew
there might be some. Valets inspected clothes and their ordering. Where
there stains; spots; blunt creases or pleats? Keys were tried in locks.
Locks were tried without keys. Candles and lamps were lit, and smelled,
and then extinguished. Nothing. Nothing was amiss. The reports came
regularly now, and were always delivered professionally, but there was
some implicit sense of disappointment as the staff’s searches moved away
from the upper floors to the lower reaches, then the question came,
“Sir,” the head butler said addressing Mr. Goldthread, “did you mean to
include the downstairs in your investigations.”

“I did indeed, and I expect that the investigations will be as thorough
and as diligent and as scrupulous to ANY ANOMALY as they have been
upstairs.”

“As you wish Sir.” And the black swallowtail coated Head Butler turned
smoothly and elegantly and departed. Hans continued standing, Mr.
Goldthread resumed pacing, and the Queen and ’Gina resumed reading and
re-reading the same pages they had distractedly been reading all the
afternoon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There was a knock at the door, and it opened to admit Mietzie who began
speaking directly to the Queen. “Mother. I mean Your Majesty. The
younger children are quite exasperating, I mean exasperated by being
kept in their rooms, and with not having had anything to eat since
breakfast, could we now serve tea ...” She broke off when she at last
recognized ’Gina. “’Gina!”

Even as ’Gina felt her muscles tense to spring from her chair and run to
Mietzie she felt the communicative tap-tap of Mr. Goldthread on the back
of her chair. ’Gina then turned with a great effort at self-control
towards the Queen, but before she could begin to ask her permission to
be excused the Queen simply gave a loud sniff in the direction of Mr.
Goldthread, and said to ’Gina afterwards, “Please my dear.” Before the
sentence was complete ’Gina jumped from her chair running to Mietzie.
They met in the middle and knocked themselves to the floor with the
force of their greeting and hugs.

“Tell me! Tell me!”

“Tell you what?” Gina asked laughing.

“Everything! What is the city like? What was school like? Did you make
friends? Better friends? Did you meet any boys?

“Wait. What is going on? Why are you here? Do you know what is going on
and why the house is locked and searched? ’Gina? Mother?”

’Gina had not answered any of Mietzie’s questions yet. The two girls sat
cross-legged on the floor and each had an arm slung over the shoulder of
the other. They regarded the Queen from that position.

The Queen spoke, “’Gina knows the answer to many, maybe all those
questions, but she has not been given leave to speak of them at this
time. Soon though Mietzie,” the Queen had seen Mietzie’s moue. “You make
an excellent suggestion though. Let us go into tea. I am sure the other
children will be happy to see you too ’Gina, and the visiting may help
us try to paint a little happiness on the face of this gloomy day.”

As all rose to leave the Head Butler presented himself in the doorway.
Mr. Goldthread spoke, “Yes?”

“We have completed all investigations and found only..., you did say any
anomaly Sir? Well then, we have completed our investigations and survey
and have discovered only one single anomaly. The Queen’s silver is short
one spoon from its inventory of two days ago.”

“One spoon?” Mr. Goldthread asked. “In the entire household the only
irregularity perceived by any staff member was a single missing spoon?”

“Yes Sir.”

And while Mr. Goldthread grumbled the Head Butler stepped aside and the
Queen led her family to tea.

On entering the room ’Gina felt a small portion of her wonder and smile
return. This had been the scene of so many happy conversations. True
there had also been trying times in the beginning, but from the
perspective of recent events they did nothing to decrease her
satisfaction on returning. She gathered in hugs and kisses from the
younger children, and the twins begged to see her finger, but she
declined, and they complained that nothing interesting ever happened in
this silly old castle and if it did no one ever let them see it.

The queen was enjoying her scene of domesticity. It was a slight treat
on a day of great distress and uncertainty. In a spontaneous mood she
dismissed the two maids who customarily served, and turned to ask
Mietzie if she would like to pour? Mietzie was clearly pleased by the
honor. Her mother had never asked her to pour before, had never
entrusted her with the responsibility. ’Gina allowed herself to sink
back slightly in her chair (she did not allow her back to touch the
chair’s back - she did not want another Mr. Goldthread tap), but she did
relax a bit and began to enjoy the sun coming in through the thick
mullioned panes and to feel the breeze come in from outside with the
scents of Spring and the faint twitters of song birds courting. From
this contented posture she saw Mietzie ask Hans if he would like a cup?
Hans declined. Then, having had tea with Mr. Goldthread many times
before, Mietzie began to prepare his cup. ’Gina tensed when she saw
Mietzie pause. ’Gina had begun to have a thought, but as it had not
reached its end yet she was not sure what it meant. She had to wait for
it to finish.

“What is it Mietzie dear?” The Queen asked.

“Nothing really Mother. I just thought that there should be tongs for
the sugar. Mr. Goldthread takes two lumps. Oh well, I will just use this
...”

“STOP!” ’Gina and Hans yelled together. “Stop and do not move!” ’Gina
continued. Silently. Quickly. With Hans at her left shoulder, she moved
towards Mietzie.

’Gina gazed at the sugar dish Mietzie was holding. ’Gina thought, there
should be sugar tongs here, but there are not. No staff would forget to
put tongs out for tea, and even as ‘Gina thought this she observed the
shiny tiny silver tea spoon of the Queen resting in its place. ’Gina
took the dish from Mietzie and handed it to Hans. She then picked up the
spoon by its end and moved it back and forth in the light. “It is damp.”
Hans said, and ’Gina nodded. Hans took the spoon from her. Their joint
gaze settled on the sugar cubes.

Hans then took a saucer and the tea pot and poured a small amount of tea
onto the saucer. He then used a different spoon to put three sugar cubes
in the middle of the warm tea sitting in the saucer. Slowly the sugar
began to dissolve into the warm weak tea. As the silent room watched the
boys who complained of nothing interesting ever happening sheltered
themselves by the lee of their mother’s knees. Hans walked the saucer
over to the open window and placed it on the sill. Flies soon buzzed
about they syrup, but before a single one could land, a small goldfinch,
egg yolk yellow in its Spring plumage, landed on the saucer’s edge and
dipped its beak in staccato fashion into the syrup. It stopped, trilled
once, and confusedly flew into the room for a few feet before dropping
unmoving onto the carpet. Mr. Goldthread looked at Hans and said only
“Operation Heimattort.” Hans walked to the door and barked something in
his dialect at the two guards outside. In the meantime the Queen had
stood, gathered her brood, and Hans ushered them out of the door
followed by Mr. Goldthread. Mietzie only had time for one glance back
and a wave, and then ’Gina was left alone in the tea room. No one had
spoken to her. They had all just left.

’Gina returned to her chair, and allowed herself to slump against the
back. She imagined she could leave. She thought she could leave.
Obviously, with an assassination attempt on the royal family, some
safety plan had been triggered. She did not think it was likely they
would be coming back. But still, she had not been dismissed, and so
’Gina decided to wait a bit. Slowly her body began to slump, and so
slowly she did not realize what was happening there was a flutter of
images, and then she fell asleep. Was that her Mother’s hand stroking
her head? Was that a dream? ’Gina was so tired. So tired. But she had
saved the Queen.
