# Guess Who Is Coming to Dinner?

’Gina spent considerable time in front of the mirror selecting her gown.
To date dressing for school had been a professional function and each
garment had been meant to impress and convince. To convince others she
was not a royal impostor she first had to convince herself. Today was
different. She was, for the first time, looking forward to something. An
outing. A journey away from the traps and trappings of the school and
the evil eye of the severe Head Mistress. ’Gina would be with a friend,
her one true school friend. The fair, loyal, intelligent, and
deprecating Helene.

She tried another gown. No, too much frippery. She chose something
simpler. One of the original dresses that Mietzie had given her. Mr.
Goldthread had felt it was too simple for the niece of the pretender to
the throne, but he relented eventually. It was silk, and blue, and she
could move in it, and it still had some faint odor of home about it.

One last twirl before the looking glass was followed by a light series
of raps at her door that ’Gina immediately recognized as the timid taps
of Helene.

“Come in Helene.”

The door slowly opened and Helene’s cute face appeared glancing around
the edge. “Oh. You look so beautiful Janus.” Everything Helene said
sounded sincere, and this compliment made ’Gina blush. The daughter of a
servant girl had trouble seeing herself as anything but a servant girl.

“Oh. Helene. You flatterer.” But ’Gina followed this scold by going over
to take her friend’s arm in hers, and together they began to leave the
room. “Are we walking?” ’Gina teased.

“No! Daddy sent his coach.” Helene shifted her voice into a lower
register to imitate her father, “We will not have a descendant of the
Kaiserkönig line striding over here like the postman.” The two girls
laughed, and Helene continued, “You will like Daddy though. He is very
charming, and our cook has been in agony over what she will make you.”

Coming out into the afternoon sun ’Gina saw before the school’s front
door a small knot of children and some teachers and staff. A coach more
grand than the one she had come in stood before them. It was led by
three pairs of stallions. Two footmen were before the door. One with the
stepping stool placed and steadied. The other held the door. The driver
faced forward, and Helene paused for a moment whispering to ’Gina. “This
is the ambassadorial carriage. I have never been in it by myself
before.” And Helene turned to look with surprise at her friend who she
now realized must be much more than the “rich girl” she had assumed.

’Gina did not respond. She appeared distracted by the carriage, but in
reality she was doing all she could to keep from running and shouting,
for she spied across the street a dirty little figure huddled in a
corner. His hair was a tangle and his face was black. He was gnawing the
heel of a loaf of hard black bread. But through the grime she recognized
Willie. Willie was here. The moment he saw her looking at him he started
and retreated further into the alley behind him until his shadow
shielded him. He is worried ’Gina thought. He is not here to see me, or
greet me, he is here to watch me. Her expression became grave, which
suited the expectations of the Ambassador’s servants who escorted Helene
and her guest, Janus, niece of the pretender from Kaiserkönig into the
coach.

While Helene’s father did dote on her, the suggestion to invite Janus to
dinner had apparently not been motivated by paternal affection only. The
coach took the most circuitous route imaginable to the ambassador’s
residence. Every street and resident in the city was to see the favor
bestowed on the Ambassador, and by extension his country of Andalonia,
by the House of Kaiserkönig. As if it were a diplomatic visit, he had
the royal crest of Kaiserkönig hung upon the carriage abutting that of
the royal house of Andalonia. All the other embassies and consulates
were sure to note the slow parade of the carriage with its pair of
heralds hanging on the doors. The long and circuitous ride did not
bother the two girls. They bounced on the red royal plush inside, and
took turns gazing out of one side and then the other. Helene indicated
points of interest, and ’Gina had trouble maintaining the ruse that she
was a jaded royal. ’Gina delighted in her guided tour of the royal city.
She was after all still a servant’s child by rearing and experience.
Raised in a royal home ’Gina was familiar with the warren ways of
servant staff, and had glimpsed some of the regal marvels as she swept
or dusted or followed the butlers explanations of protocols and
dynasties, but she had never seen a city, really. Let alone a royal
city. It would never have occurred to imagination to have guessed she
would one day view it from an Ambassador’s carriage.

At last their time on display ended. The driver pulled up before the
Embassy where excited and impulsive Helene swung open the carriage door
and leaped down eager to guide her friend inside. Footmen scurried to
place step stools, but were too late as Janus became ’Gina for a moment
and followed her friend with a long leap from the carriage to the
sidewalk. Again the two girls looped arms. Obviously watched from the
house, and afraid of further breaches of decorum and protocol, the large
embassy doors swung open and the Ambassador, his wife, and Diego stood
on the steps in greeting. Seeing their formality ’Gina was disappointed,
and it showed in a frown. This expression helped cement her return to
character, and it was effective in making the Ambassador purse his lips
in reflection. Helene hurried her friend up the steps and made, in
monotone and from memory, the formal words of introduction her father
had said were required. ’Gina, happy to be at a home again, and ready to
relax from her constant vigilance of the school smiled at them all, even
Diego, and responded with warm, sincere words of appreciation and thanks
for the invitation. ’Gina gave a brief spontaneous hug to the
ambassador’s wife who returned it while the Ambassador tutted about
protocol. Still he reached out to tousle his daughter’s hair as he
escorted their esteemed guest inside.

Dinner took place in the Ambassador’s formal dining room. ’Gina had
hoped for something less rigid. She had viewed the outing with the
expectations of seeing her girlfriend’s home; however, Helene’s father
had viewed it as a chance for social climbing and national lobbying. It
was an unusual hybrid. Numerous courses of tiny samples were served. A
devastating amount of silver gleamed at each place (and ’Gina knew what
each piece was and what each piece was for as she had been schooled by
hours spent in polishing and table setting all under the supervision of
the second butler). One by one each piece was used to spear an asparagus
tipped with Hollondaise, or a few bites of flaky, buttery sole meunier,
and on and on. Interspersed among the servings, manipulated and managed
by a servant who stood silently behind each chair, was girl talk, school
talk, and family gossip.

Helene was just concluding the story of the bee and ’Gina grew red with
a combination of revived indignation and embarrassment. “You are a bit
more revolutionary than one would expect?” commented the Ambassador.

“Noblesse oblige” responded ’Gina.

“Well said,” replied the Ambassador. “Vous parlez Français?”

“Bien sûr Ambassador, mais je prefere Anglais”

“Ganz genau. English it is.”

“Dankeschön. Das ist sehr nett von Ihnen.” replied ’Gina.

At this the Ambassador had a belly laugh, though the rest of the company
looked confused. “Never mind. Never mind.” he said on seeing the
family’s puzzled looks. “This one is very clever.” And he smiled again
at ’Gina and wagged an admiring finger, but now the smile was only on
his lips and not in his eyes.

Dinner conversation proceeded along more neutral terms, but ’Gina had
been put back on her guard by this testing of the Ambassador and the
slightly feral nature of his smile. Diego spoke little. Usually simply
to echo an observation of his father’s and to comment on its justness.
’Gina could see now how Diego resembled his father. Smaller, fatter, but
with the same look of cunning sometimes peaking out behind his facade.
Helene’s mother, in response to prodding by the father, asked ’Gina
questions about the Kaiserkönig realm. She had spent some weeks there as
a child. ’Gina did the best she could with her memory of the guidebook
facts she had been schooled in by Monsieur Franz. It seemed to satisfy
the mother, whose own memory did not seem too secure on the matter, and
may in fact have been asking questions based on the same books. But if
Helene’s mother suspected anything she did not convey it. Helene’s
mother seemed much more in the mold of Helene, and she added a story of
her own school girl days when she had once been punished for sneaking
out to see a boy from the town. The Ambassador had tried to interrupt
the story, but Helene’s mother persisted, perhaps egged on by the
shocked looks on Diego’s face and the giggles coming from Helene and
’Gina.

Following on this was more innocent conversation, as if it was another
course, and indeed it synchronized with the delivery of the Tiramisu
with its caramelized topping flamed into place at each diner’s place.
“So tell me,” the Ambassador began in a voice slyly different and more
probing than before, “how does your Aunt view the current situation in
the capitol. We in Andalonia have complicated feelings on the current
alliances.”

This was clearly an invitation to entrapment or exposure. The Ambassador
was probing to see if ’Gina, that is Janus, had been sent to the capitol
to look for alliances on behalf of her ambitious and bitter Aunt, or it
could have been an invitation to confess treason so that he could curry
favor with the Queen’s house by exposing ’Gina. Mostly, on hearing this
question, ’Gina felt indignant on behalf of the Queen. Again, ’Gina
understood to a greater degree the deceit and scheming that every day
surrounded her Majesty. In her indignation ’Gina mustered one of the few
answers that could have sailed her through these twin threats. “My Aunt
views the situation in the Capitol as one not fitting for idle
discussion at dinner parties with people one has just met.” ’Gina
punctuated her response by a snake-eyed stare at the Ambassador. He
returned her stare unsmiling, but after several seconds a decision
seemed to have been made. With a jolly, “Ah, wise advice from a wise
woman. What else should one expect?” The more convivial mood was
reestablished.

With this, the Ambassador’s wife chimed in with “ Please, Benedict. No
more politics. Let the girls be school girls.”

“Of course, my Dear. That is as it should be.” The Ambassador smiled at
Helene and his wife, and glanced without a smile at ’Gina. Then seeming
to gather his humor he gave a shrug and cracked the coating of his
desert with a spoon. As he did this a man entered from a side door and
came directly to the Ambassadors chair, bowed down with a single bend at
the waist, and placed his lips beside the Ambassador’s ear. The servant
spoke so that no one else could hear, see his lips move, or deduce the
importance of the topic from his expression. Ah, ’Gina thought, he has
his own Mr. Goldthread. Something important has happened.

His message delivered, the man stood, and without acknowledgment of the
ongoing dinner or the people eating it, glided out of the room with
barely a hush from his soft steps on the carpet.

“I am afraid that a matter of some urgency has arisen.” And here he
again paused for several seconds to stare at ’Gina. “Dinner must be
concluded.”

“But Papa!” Helene spoke loudly, impulsively. “We haven’t finished
dessert. Janus hasn’t seen my room. You said she could stay and visit
awhile, and you said...”

The Ambassador stood up abruptly, his chair tumbled back to the floor.
No one moved, not even the footman whose job it was to pull back the
seat when the Ambassador rose. He yelled at Helene, all the while
looking at ’Gina. “You will go to your room immediately.” And with the
gesture he used to emphasize his command he sent his dessert spoon
flying. It struck one of the other immobile footmen behind the
children’s side of the table. “Diego!” he shouted. Diego leaped to his
feet, sending his chair flying backwards, but the footman behind Diego,
alerted by the spoon to the chest (a spoon which still hung to his front
by its sticky caramel end) caught the chair before it hit the floor and
deftly pulled it back. “My Father.” Diego replied while standing to
attention.

“You will escort Miss Kaiserkönig back to her school. Now.”

“The route Father?” By this question, Diego revealed himself to be other
than the dullard he so convincingly played at school.

Pausing for a moment to think, the Ambassador said sarcastically, and
after a sideways glance at ’Gina, “I guess you had better go back the
way you came. That is after all the way. Isn’t it?”

“Yes Father.” came Diego’s obedient response.

“Excuse me,” the Ambassador said, and without waiting for responses
strode out of the room using the same door the quiet man had used.

When ’Gina next looked at the Ambassador’s wife she saw her mouth hung
open. “My heaven’s!” the woman said while rising. The footman behind her
pulled back her chair a look of relief on his face. “I do apologize Miss
Kaiserkönig.” The Ambassador’s wife glanced in the direction that a
sobbing Helene had run off. “This is not customary, but the duties of my
husband’s position can be pressing and unexpected, and ...” The
Ambassador’s wife seemed to have run out of explanation, and ’Gina
jumped into spare her embarrassment.

“I do understand very well Madam Ambassador the tensions provoked by
professional obligations.”

“How well put, Miss Kaiserkönig. You are truly a most remarkable young
woman. I do hope we have the privilege of meeting again. Perhaps under
more social and less formal circumstances. For now, I am afraid, I will
have to retire to see to my husband and daughter and ask you to please
allow Diego to take you back by our carriage to your lodgings at
school.”

Various servants rustled about. Wraps were found. A coat brought for
Diego. Footstools presented. And a very short time later Diego sat with
’Gina in the carriage as it retraced its wandering route along
Ambassadorial lane to the school. ’Gina opened her curtains to watch the
city go by, though with much less interest than before. She was
distracted by her thoughts. As was Diego, though he did not keep quiet.
He seemed to feel a bond had been developed by this experience. A bond
between children with demanding and important guardians. “Wow.” he said.
Then for emphasis, “Wooow!”

“Does that happen often at your house?” ’Gina asked without taking her
eyes from the view through her carriage side window.

“No. Never. I mean Dad will lose it in private sometimes. I have heard
him throw stuff in his office, but he always comes out looking calm. And
he has never lost it at an official dinner.”

“Official dinner? Helene invited me as a friend!”

“Yeah. I know, but you have to be used to this right? You’re a
Kaiserkönig. Can you really have friends?” Diego did not mean his
comment to be mean. He thought what he said should be obvious. “I don’t
mean Helene of course. She’s for real. I mean generally. You know that
everyone has to want something. My father is the Ambassador of
Andalonia. You had to know he was going to try and score points out of a
visit from a Kasierkönig. Andalonia needs trade deals.”

And ’Gina’s eyes grew moist at this. She thought of her talks with
Albrecht, his fencing instructor. The spoiled Mietzie. The cautious
Queen. And herself, scholar and spy, learning nothing important on this
adventure, but how no one could be trusted, and how passing for
“important” meant disdaining relationships for anything but monetary or
information value. Then, from her window, ’Gina spied the Queen’s
carriage. ’Gina blanched. She knew all those servants, and none of them
knew she was here. What would happen if one of them saw her and spoke?
She slunk back into her seat. Diego, catching sight of her face and
movements glanced out his window and misinterpreted the source of her
fear.

“Oh. The Queen’s carriage. Don’t worry. No one will bother you. Our
carriage carries the Andalonian seal. We are on good terms with the
Queen. Her men will let us pass. They won’t want an incident.” Diego
revealed himself to be an astute Ambassador in training. The footmen of
the Queen’s carriage, she was clearly inside the residence before which
it was parked, observed the official Ambassador’s carriage approach and
lined themselves up in some form of official acknowledgment. In
response, the Andalonian carriage slowed to a walk as it passed, and the
Andalonian foot men took off their hats. After which the Queen’s
carriage men did the same. Diego, spoke over his shoulder to ’Gina.
“They always do this. It’s hilarious. The order is really important. The
Queen’s men always take their caps off after we do.” He then reached out
the window to wave to one of the Queen’s carriage men. By the street
lights ’Gina could see the faces of the Queen’s carriage men as they
passed. All held themselves to attention with eyes averted, accept for
the one that Diego waved to. He was as erect as the others, but he
smiled when they drew opposite and gave a broad wink to Diego. Diego
turned around and said to ’Gina. “That’s Jimmie. He’s a friend of one of
our footmen and comes by the house a lot. He does magic.”

’Gina had been pressed deep into the carriage, as far from the Queen’s
men as she could be, but when Diego turned to speak Jimmie followed
Diego’s gaze with his own eyes to see to whom it was that Diego had been
speaking. At this moment a gaslight from ’Gina side of the street shone
through her the drawn curtain of her window to illuminate her face. Her
gaze met Jimmie’s. She watched his smile disappear in surprise, and then
she saw his face grow dark and a sneer curl his lip. The carriage, now
past the Queen’s, resumed its trot and distanced itself from the Queen’s
retinue. Diego and ’Gina heard some vague shouting and looked at each
other in confusion. Then there was a loud thunk from ’Gina side of the
carriage.

“What was that Diego?”

“I don’t know.” then to the coachman, “Coachman. What was that sound?”

“Can’t say Master Diego. Everything is fine up here. No road debris.
Footmen?” he shouted. And two Oys echoed back an all okay from behind.
While startling, it was not clearly threatening, and ’Gina was
preoccupied with what would be the effect of Jimmie’s seeing her. She
had been sure he would recognize her, but when she saw that cold look of
hatred on his face, she began to doubt herself. Did he really take her
for a Kaiserkönig? Was that the reason he stared with such hatred. Even
as a Queen’s man, such an open display of contempt would have been
intolerable, even towards an enemy, let alone a young girl riding in an
Ambassadorial carriage. She could not puzzle out the connection. And
Diego knew him. Did that mean something. He visited the Ambassador’s
residence to see a friend? Must have been often if Diego knew him well
enough to learn of his magic past.

Diego sensed ’Gina’s disquiet, but he did not understand it. He thought,
with his perspective as the son of an Ambassador that it must have
something to do with the bad state of relations between the Queen and
her estranged distant cousin the Countess of Kaiserkönig. He made one or
two efforts at conversation, but then let ’Gina be, and he simply
watched the nighttime streets pass by his carriage window.

Eventually, the Ambassador’s gauche, bragging parade route of a path
came to an end in front of the school. Footmen opened doors. Footstools
were placed. Diego descended first and offered his hand to ’Gina as he
had seen gentleman do for ladies. ’Gina took it as form and without
warmth, and still lost in her thoughts turned to watch Diego ascend, the
footstools to be removed, the footmen to climb up, and the coachman to
crack his whip and snap his reigns to move the horses on the wide u-turn
that would turn the carriage back upon its way. Diego waved to her from
his window, and after the carriage had turned around he waved again from
what had been ’Gina’s side. ’Gina waved back, and as Diego passed ’Gina
saw glinting in the street light a few inches below the window’s sill
the sparkling silver sheen of the exposed portion of the blade of a
throwing knife embedded in the carriage door.
