# Schooled

Mr. Goldthread had advised Regina’s mother that the parting might be
easier if she did not escort Regina to the carriage. Regina and her
mother had never been separated from each other for a single night in
their entire lives. In fact, they had shared a single bed for almost all
of it. While Mr. Goldthread respected them both, he was truly unsure
what should happen when it came time for Regina to leave. Mother and
daughter nodded to the men, and then locked themselves in their small
shared room.

Herr Stoll gave a questioning shrug to which Mr. Goldthread said, “As
long as they wish.”

Mr. Goldthread and the Queen’s Guards heard nothing aside from a few
faint rustlings. For 15 minutes Herr Gafner, Herr Stoll, and Mr.
Goldthread waited patiently outside. When the door opened the three men
saw two calm, stoic, and very wet faces.

“Remember Mother. When they tell you the letters say I am asking after
my Nurse, it really means you,” Regina said.

“I just wish I could write you back, but Mr. Goldthread says I ought’n
and he’s probably right. But I will be thinking of you every moment. He
says he will get a message to you if needs be.”

“Indeed I will Madam.” Mr. Goldthread reassured.

“Well...” was all Regina could say before she buried her face in her
mother’s bosom and squeezed her hard with a hug. Her mother kissed the
top of Regina’s head, and without a sign they separated as one,
straightened, and with the same simple gesture each used two hands to
smooth back her hair. Regina pivoted. She looked directly at Mr.
Goldthread and said. “I am ready, Sir.”

Without further spoken commands the three men turned and proceeded to
the stairs that would take them out of the servants’ quarters. Regina
followed without turning around. Regina’s mother stood stiffly watching
the quartet depart. After they had disappeared around the corner
Regina’s mother became aware of an unusual quiet. She turned to see the
Queen standing silently behind her. Beyond the Queen was bowing staff.
Regina’s mother too begin to bow, but before she had moved very far she
felt the Queen’s hand on her shoulder and heard her clearly say, “No.
Not today.”The Queen’s hand began to gently stroke Regina’s mother’s
shoulder. “Are you certain you will not let me arrange a small vacation
for you at one of my estates? It seems unfair to keep you toiling here
while your daughter undertakes this mission for me.”

“No Your Highness. I want to be here where I know her letters will be
coming. It makes me feel closer knowin’ they can reach me if there needs
be. Even just knowing that I’ll be near where the people who will be
reading her words are will help. And the work will distract me.”

“As you wish. But there is no ceremony where Regina is concerned. If you
need to reach me with questions or concerns about your daughter you go
directly to Mr. Goldthread. No need for intermediate staff.”

“Yes M’am.” Regina’s mother bowed her head. The Queen regarded the brave
woman in front of her and idly wondered how she, the Queen, would have
responded to such a task if she had not been bred to it? She idly
stroked Regina’s mother shoulder for a moment longer. This was an
interesting, strong woman. How many more like her, the Queen wondered,
were down here wasting their time polishing, sweeping, and washing when
their characters potentially made them capable of so much more? This was
a conversation worth having. “I would like to talk to you further my
dear, when this is over. We shall have tea together.”

Regina’s mother could only gape, and with a final pat on Regina’s
mother’s shoulder, the Queen moved to follow the path out of the
servants area.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Regina had seen carriages come and go from the great house, but she had
never been in one. This carriage was black, plain, and slightly seedy.
Sitting on the driver’s bench was an unshaven older man in a grease
stained duster. He winked at Regina as she approached, and exchanged a
few words with Herr Gafner in the dialect they spoke. As Regina climbed
in, she stood and looked about. Mr. Goldthread spoke: “Sit facing
forward. Less likely to get sick that way. Remember, keep your veil down
and the curtains drawn on this leg. It will be several hours drive
before the switch. Sleep if you can, though I doubt that you will.”

And he was right about that. Regina had seen numerous carriages come and
go from the great house. From various hidden, secret perches she had
watched elegance arrive and depart. But not once had Regina ever even
been next to a carriage, let alone in one. She felt the carriage sink a
bit with the weight of her trunk being slung onto the back. She sat
facing forward as instructed. Her hands rested in her lap. When the
curtains were pulled aside she saw Mr. Goldthread’s face, and to her
surprise it was split with a broad smile. “ Well Miss Kaiserkönig, any
last questions?” Regina shook her head. “You know, I truly believe you
will be exceptional at this. I truly do.” Then he dropped the curtain in
place, and Regina heard a crack of a whip and felt the carriage lurch.
And though she had regarded it as an impossibility, Regina felt herself
grow sleepy within just a few moments of the carriage’s gentle rocking
in the dark. It was the memory of her mother’s lips upon her head that
guided Regina in to a deep and dreamless sleep.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Regina awoke with the realization that the carriage had stopped moving.
Regina sat up. Her face felt puffy. It was creased from where she had
lain on it. A couple of hand slaps on her door alerted her that she
could open it, which she did after a moment to straighten her hair.
Regina could see daylight slicing in at the edges of the carriage’s
curtains. She felt the carriage shift again, and guessed her trunk was
being removed.

On opening the door Regina saw Herr Gafner and Herr Stoll in livery. The
former inspected two beautiful dappled geldings that were bridled to a
second white carriage bearing the coat of arms of the Kaiserkönig line.
Herr Stoll belted her trunk on to the back of the new carriage. Seeing
her emerge, he spoke, “There is a dress in there,” he gestured to a
wooden stable building. “Please change. We would leave as soon as
possible.” Regina looked up at the slightly seedy driver of the black
carriage. He tipped his hat and winked again. “Auf widerlüge“ he
shouted. Without waiting for replies, he cracked his whip and the black
carriage raced off. Regina did as she was told, and went off to change.

Regina had wanted to watch the countryside, a vision she had never seen
in her short life. All her years had been spent as a child of one of the
Queen’s household staff and she had never once, that she could remember,
been off the royal grounds. But as the landscape slid by Regina began to
become queasy. Not wanting to begin her time at the school compromised
she pulled the curtains shut, and opened and closed the book she held on
her lap never reading any of it. Regina was constantly rehearsing in her
mind her what she was to do on arriving, who she would meet, who was
related to whom, and then, still being a young girl, wondering if people
would like her, and how long it would take them to figure out she was a
stupid servant.

Regina felt embarrassed by the prospect, but her dominant feeling was
anger at thinking that if so she would be letting down the Queen. This
anger helped to banish the embarrassment, and to focus Regina on her
task. Replaying the genealogy of the various royal houses helped Regina
to focus and she soon lost her motion sickness. Regina was actually
surprised when she felt the cadence of the carriage change. Then she
heard the rumble of their rutted dirt track change to the clack of
cobblestones beneath their wheels. They were in the town.

Oh how Regina wanted to open the curtains, and stick her head outside to
gaze at the city and compare it to her dreams and Mietze’s stories.
Regina imagined though that her alter-ego Janus would be more sanguine
about cities, and that it would not help her disguise to appear too much
the rustic. It seemed safer to simply contain herself inside the closed
carriage.

Regina heard the clatter of footsteps alongside. Shouts. Children. Some
begging, and some cheering. Apparently carriages from the Kaiserkönig
line attracted attention. The voices faded, and there was a knock on the
wall behind her. The sign. They would be entering school soon, the
School for Aristocrats and Diplomats (SAD) at Le Grande Ecole Camford.
Now Regina pulled back the curtains, and then leaned back in a rather
poor imitation of boredom. She saw high buildings to either side. Some
were wood, but most were made of stone. Some of the windows held
on-lookers. Others were empty, and a few aired out laundry for drying.
Then abruptly the buildings disappeared as they went through a stone
arch. Regina found herself entering a broad square courtyard with a
central lawn and buildings on all sides. She could see a small coterie
gathered ahead, and the coach came to a slow stop before them. Herr
Stoll leaped from his place behind to open the door and placed a small
footstool before Regina as a step. Regina arose slowly and came down
carefully, fearful of marking her entrance by tripping on her exit. She
made certain to look neither at Herr Gafner or Herr Stoll.

Comfortably on solid ground Regina scrutinized the three people before
her. One was clearly a servant. He immediately moved to join Herr Stoll
behind the carriage, presumably to help with Regina’s trunk. The second
was probably another student. She seemed about Regina’s age. For the
third she did not have to guess. This woman stepped forward and bowed
her head briefly. “Greetings. Viscountess Janus. I am Athena Bostick.
Head Mistress.”

The Head Mistress extended her hand. Regina stared straight into the
Head Mistress’s eyes, and removed one glove before taking the Head
Mistress’s hand in her own. Miss Bostick held it firmly and Regina felt
finger tips probe and palpate. Finally, Miss Bostick released her. “You
must be quite the athlete Viscountess. We have many opportunities for
sport.” Regina did not know why, but Miss Bostick alarmed her. Regina
slid her glove back on quickly. Before she could reply the other student
came forward, and enthusiastically grabbed the gloved hand and pumped
it.

“Hello Viscountess. I am so happy you’re here. All the kids have been
talking about it. We never thought there would be a Kaiserkönig here.
What did you do?”

“Miss Andalonia!” the Head Mistress barked. “Please. Some decorum.”

Regina saw the girl’s eyes tear up, and felt her begin to pull back, but
Regina held on, and looking at the Head Mistress spoke to the girl.
“What a pleasure to make your acquaintance Miss Andalonia.”

The girl looked with confusion between Regina and the Head Mistress, and
then managed to wiggle her hands out of Regina’s grip. “Sorry Head
Mistress. I was just so excited to meet her. She will be my first
mentee.”

“Yes. Well one’s anticipation doesn’t excuse assault. We have discussed
this Helene.”

“Yes Head Mistress.”

Turning to Regina, the distracted Head Mistress said: “Viscountess Janus
Kaiserkönig, may I present to you Miss Helene Andalonia, daughter of the
Pyrenean Ambassador. She is to be your student guide if that is
acceptable?” The Head Mistress paused. “We call the guide a mentor and
new student a mentee.”

“Did you say Miss Andalonia was a menteur Head Mistress? That hardly
seems polite.” Regina asked this in a sarcastic tone. This cheek seemed
appropriate to her role, and it came easily since she already disliked
and was suspicious of the Head Mistress. Something in the way the woman
had probed her hand. Regina heard Helene giggle.

“Non. Je dit un mot Anglais: mentor.”

“Quelle domage,” replied Regina, “The former would have been so much
more diverting.” Even this bit of pretend patter tired Regina. She was
having to attend to so many things at once, and with a great and unusual
intensity. Regina felt it wise to end the encounter. “Perhaps, I might
be shown to my rooms Miss Bostick.”

“Yes, of course.” Miss Bostick flipped her hand and the servant with the
trunk began to move up the stairs. “Helene,” Regina asked “would you be
so kind as to show me to my quarters.”

“Oh yes of course!”

Regina laced her arm in Helene’s and began to move up the stairs after
the servant. Without looking back at the Head Mistress Regina lifted her
other arm and dismissed the carriage with an exact replica of Miss
Bostick’s own hand flipping gesture. It was a true tribute to the
rigorous discipline and training of the Swiss Guards that Herrn Gafner
and Stoll were able to avoid erupting in guffaws. Hoping their slight
smiles passed as grimaces Gafner and Stoll looked away as the carriage
pulled through the gate, and as Regina disappeared into the school
building.
