# An Education

It was two days later that ’Gina found herself back in the tea room, but
it was not for tea. It was early and cold. Few lamps were lit, and even
a thin layer of dust could be found on some of the polished surfaces. It
was not a room that had been meant for a meeting today. Neither the
Queen nor her staff would have been satisfied with these conditions.
’Gina looked across at her Mother sitting in the chair next to her. Her
Mother seemed very nervous, and sat so rigid and so far forward on the
edge of her chair that ’Gina was unsure if the chair was actually
supporting her Mother at all or if her Mother was just hovering in the
air in a squat.

’Gina’s Mother’s eyes toggled back and forth between the two men in the
crisp black suits who had escorted them up from downstairs. They were
two of Mr. Goldthread’s surrogates, his *gents* is how he referred to
them. The Gents dressed as Mr. Goldthread did. They wore plain white
shirts, black ties and shoes. From the breast pockets of their creased
black suits emerged creased white handkerchief’s folded to reveal three
points as sharp as pitchfork tines. Regina had noticed the only glimpse
of color to be found upon them while going up the stairs. One of the
Gents was in front and the other followed right behind. With each step
the Gent in front of her took Regina saw flash a small embroidered
square of red with a white cross set inside.

These men were neither of the upstairs nor downstairs. They lived in a
big building by the stables where they kept to themselves and did their
own meals and laundry. They were known, of course, to the staff, but
they did not visit, and they did not chat. The Gents floated like black
clad ghosts in the background of the Queen’s retinue, were seen to
mingle in the crowd at public days, and would quietly swoop to bend
their heads close to Mr. Goldthread’s in some whispered communication
before silently taking their leave. Their quiet nature was so consistent
that it was rumored by the stable boys (who in tending to the horses had
the closest glimpses) that some of them might even be mute. While they
were men of many races, they still managed in most ways to look alike.
They wore their hair cut close, kept faces shaved, and most had flat,
broken noses. All of them bore muscles that strained the seams of their
tailored restraints.

Word had been sent that Mr. Goldthread needed a gent or two to escort
the *ladies* - he was pointed in his use of this term - to this room at
this time. And because they were *ladies* the agents were respectful and
deferential in their requests, but because they were Mr. Goldthread’s
men they were also insistent, and they did not say why or where Regina
and her Mother were being taken.

Regina’s Mother, looking once more to her right, once more to her left,
eyed the ebony trunks that stood watchful to each side. She leaned in
towards Regina and whispered: “What’s doing little one?” And Regina
could only shake her head a little from side to side in ignorance. She
too glanced from right to left. Forgetting her fear, it being edged out
by her curiosity, she had an idea that rapidly became too big for her
head. To release the pressure she opened the valve that was her voice.

“They’re Swiss Mother!” Regina then immediately began to wonder why? Why
Swiss men as Mr. Goldthread’s ’gents? Regina gazed up and faraway to let
her thoughts grind on. Then another thought bubble burst. “Swiss Guards.
Just like the Pope!”

Neither of the men flinched, but one turned his head ever so slightly to
look at Regina. It was only due to her long practice with Mr. Goldthread
that she felt sure she detected a smile. Her Mother saw nothing but
their vigilant gazes. “Oh! Oh!” Regina could not stop the momentum of
her thought, “The Queen is worried for herself...” and looking from side
to side again at each of Goldthread’s gents, “and for us too?”

“Really?” her Mother asked. “Why should Her Majesty be worried for a
maid and her daughter?” Her Mother’s effort to console herself and her
daughter was not persuasive. This attempt to dismiss the seriousness of
the gathering was refuted by its very nature: an escort of Swiss Guards
taking place in the Queen’s tea room before dusting time. She and Regina
became quiet again, and returned to their quiet waiting. Goldthread’s
gents kept up their quiet watching.

Five minutes later the Queen entered followed by Mr. Goldthread. Both
guards stood to attention, and both Regina and her Mother stood and
bowed. “My Dears,” the Queen spoke, “Please be seated.”

At a wave of her arm a chair appeared, and the Queen sat down across
from Regina and her Mother. “Where is Albrecht?” the Queen asked the
’gent to Regina’s right. He answered with a stony Goldthread glare.
“Well I don’t care.” she replied, “Fetch him!” Then to Regina and her
Mother, “Another moment, please.”

A short moment later Albrecht appeared with his night shirt tucked into
the pants of his regimental uniform. He had one boot on, and the other
in his hand. He hopped in. His hair pointed to heaven and flopped with
each leap forwarded as he tried to walk and put on his other boot at the
same time. Seeing the scene before him he became at once professional.
Dropping the boot he too stood to attention. “Good Morning Mother,” he
said.

“Good Morning Albrecht,” she replied, “Now,” she said focusing on ’Gina.
“ What do you observe about me?”

“Well. First, your gout is better. You walked in quite briskly.”

“Yes my gout is better. And I have you to thank for that. I consulted
with Cook, who you told me had the same affliction, and she recommended
a remarkable poultice she gets from some village woman. Cook is also
going to be cooking me some simpler meals, and I suspect that will help
her gout more than mine since she seems to consume more in tasting her
preparations than I in their eating.” And here the Queen smiled, “What
else child?” Her gaze narrowed in a concentrated study of the young
girl.

Regina reflected before speaking. She looked back at the Queen and then
around at each of the other occupants of the room. Then for a moment she
turned her head towards the ceiling. She seemed not to see it. Returning
to a level gaze, ’Gina said, “You are worried. For yourself, and for
your household, and somehow you think we can help.” When saying *we* she
gestured to her Mother and herself. “I can only guess now that it has
something to do with the spy.” At the word “spy” Regina’s Mother’s mouth
dropped open.

“You can keep a secret can’t you?” the Queen said. “Didn’t even tell
your Mother did you?” The Queen chuckled.

“You told me not to speak of it to anyone.” Regina replied as if that
explanation should not have been needed.

“Indeed I did, and you were trustworthy as usual. Your logic and your
observations commend you. It is because of that that I have come to ask
you, and your Mother, for a favor to the realm.” At this Regina smiled,
and her Mother frowned, and the Queen understood and approved both
responses.

With a glance at Mr. Goldthread the Queen continued. “I cannot share the
details, but there is indeed a spy. I, on behalf of our country, am
engaged in some delicate constructions and negotiations, and should they
fail it could bring great hardship upon us all, perhaps even a threat of
war. It is in my efforts to avoid just such possibilities that I always
labor and battle against foreign schemers who think they can take our
serenity for their own.

“Well that is a story for another time, perhaps, but for now it is
enough to know that the exposure of my plans would put our land in a
position of great difficulty and could be used to extort us or confound
us in our labors to preserve our peace. We must know who the spy is, who
they work for, and what is that they know!” The Queen paused a moment to
calm herself. From the tension in her voice the whole room knew that
what the Queen was sharing was most important.

“This is where you have already helped me ’Gina. After our last
encounter I was most frustrated with my children. As close as we are to
you, how is it that they could have let slip this gravest of secrets?
And then I understood; it is because they are children. Children often
see as we do not. They may miss what we intend, and infer what we do
not. They sense emotionally what is important, but they may not
comprehend what it means. So, they know a lot, but they do not always
know what is they know. But usually, at least for Royal offspring, that
knowledge stays bottled up. First in the Nursery, and then in the
Household, until such time that the child becomes an adult and can be
released to the Realm to keep his own counsel upon state matters. And so
should my secret have stayed bottled up except for you ’Gina.” She
pointed directly at the young girl, and as she did so Regina’s Mother
stood up and stepped between the Queen and ’Gina, and simultaneously
felt on her elbow the secure grasp of one Swiss Guard.

“Please Madam” said the Queen to Regina’s Mother. “It was not an
accusation, but a compliment. Your daughter knows better than my
children how to keep a secret. It is a skill she must have learned from
you and her years downstairs, but she also knows or has been gifted with
a sympathy that encourages others to trust her, and so they speak and
share. Even if they do not, the accuatance of her wit makes her a mighty
inference engine. She can diagnose from a gait. She can deduce that of
which the children do not literally speak.

“It is not my children alone that know secrets they do not appreciate as
such, and I do not feel it is only my children who might be the conduits
to great knowledge that would leak out in conversation with, and
observation by, you my Dear. Are you willing to undertake a service for
your country?”

Regina did not have time to reply, before her Mother interjected. “You
will speak to me first on such matters Your Highness.” Though the words
were deferential, the attitude was not, and Regina’s Mother stood taller
despite the strong arm on her elbow, and she edged herself more directly
between the Queen and her daughter.

The Queen turned to the Regina’s Mother. “I would like to send her to
school.”

“To school?”

“To school. But not just to any school. There is in the city a
residential school. It is quite recognized for the excellence of its
instruction. It is where my children should go if I were anyone but the
Queen. Many children from the most respected families move there to live
and learn, and they do learn, becoming scientists, and advisors. It is
the Alma Mater of our Mr. Goldthread in fact. It is also ...” and the
Queen shifted slightly in her seat emphasizing the critical nature of
the next point, “the school that almost all the children from the
various embassies, consulates, and ambassadorial residences attend. It
is in sum a collection of the children from the households that have the
most incentive, and the greatest capacity, to spy and undermine my rule.
And it is from Regina that I have learned that such children leak
secrets. We have been unable to catch the spy, but we have been able to
detect the loss of critical information. I am quite frankly at a loss
for how to proceed. With the assistance of Regina’s sensitive ear and
intelligence I might gain information that would allow me, indirectly,
to identify the source of this deceit.”

“The loss of this secret, ’Mum, it could mean war?” Regina’s Mother
asked.

“Yes. It could mean war.”

“And that makes it a secret worth dying for and killing for.” Two simple
statements made by Regina’s Mother. Their implication was clear.

The Queen made no reply, she made no denial. Regina’s Mother continued.
“I love my country, but I love my daughter more. You have a large and
glorious family, and you have...” here ’Gina’s Mother gestured with a
swing of her free hand, “all this. And all I have is this.” She rested
her hand on Regina’s shoulder, who reached up to squeeze her Mother’s
hand..

The Queen stood. With a gesture to the guard she had him release his
hold on Regina’s Mother’s elbow. The Queen came forward and stood face
to face, eye to eye with Regina’s Mother. “I do have a large family, but
lately I feel it has grown. I feel as protective of your child now as I
do my own. But my family is larger still than can be measured by
children or cousins or great-great aunts. It is the land and all its
people. You think of your daughter and what could happen to her if she
succeeds in learning of the spy and their secrets. I think what happens
if she fails. I think of the misery that will befall this land, and my
extended family, the people for which I am ever and eternally
responsible.” In the background Regina saw Albrecht’s face grow grim.
“Think not dear Mother of this child only, but join me in thinking of
all the children.”

“I can do it Mother. I know I can. Let me try. Please!”

Regina’s Mother squeezed her child’s shoulder tighter, and looked up at
the ceiling in blind thought. It was a gesture that would have made all
smile under other circumstances. It was apparent to all that this was
the same exact stance Regina took in moments of deep reflection, and
neither Mother nor daughter could have denied the other.

“May I tell you a story your Majesty?” It was a surprising question, and
the Queen was surprised, but having met the daughter she thought there
might be more to the Mother than she had previously supposed. The Queen
assented with a slight nod, and Regina could see Albrecht grow confused
and concentrate behind her.

“I have only ’ad one ’oliday in my life ’Mum. Me Dad saved for it for
ten years. Each tuppence extra, and some weeks there was none, went into
a jar that he kept under a board, in the floor, under the blanket upon
which he slept. My sister and me shared a bed, and my Mother was only a
memory that he told us about. She died when we were born. When my sister
and me were 15 the jar was full enough that we could go spend two
weekdays in the country. Weekdays was cheaper. My Dad, he wanted my sis
and me to know something other than work. He told us so. He said work
would be our lot for ever after, and hardship (and my Sis and me could
tell he was thinkin’ of our Mom) disappointment, loss and sorrows. But
for two days, two days of memories we would always ’ave, he wanted us to
know a time of bein’ carefree.

“Well, he was no outdoors-man. Mostly worked in the fields and sometimes
in the greenhouse. He was good wit’ plants and things and we always ate
healthy ’cause he could pluck us a dinner when we needed one, but he
wasn’t much of a man for activities. Still he wanted us to know what
puntin’ was, and he dident want me and Sissy to have to share all our
memories so he wanted to punt us each in our own, what you call them,
canoes.

“He pushed off in one and then reached over with the stick thing to get
another, and it started to drift away.” Regina could see the confusion
and impatience growing on Albrecht’s face, but a slight hint of warmth
and a smile on Mr. Goldthread’s. “So he reaches over with his foot to
grab it. Then he wobbles a moment and the foot comes down firmer like,
and now he is standing with the rod balancing while he’s got one foot in
one canoe, and the other foot in the other canoe, and a real
concentrated look on his face. He managed to stay that way struggling
with his legs to pull them together for almost two ’hole minutes, then
they just went their separate ways and he got a duckin’. We all laughed.
The water twernt deep. He just stood up, but I always remember that
moment of leisure and delight when I am feelin worried.”

“But the point of the story is this. What you would be doin to my baby
girl with your school; it wouldn’t be a duckin’ she was going to get.”

Regina saw Albrecht mouth the word “what?”, but the Queen kept her
sympathetic expression. “But what would you have me do about it? We are
of two worlds.”

“I know your Majesty.” Regina’s Mother continued. Regina was proud of
the calm in her Mother’s voice, and her confidence in her argument. She
felt sure Mr. Goldthread would have given her Mother’s chair a tap if he
had been standing behind her, and if she had been sitting down.

“But you aren’t making it so she can move in two worlds. You are making
her stuck in no world! She isn’t in either and she is going to have one
foot stuck in one, and t’other in t’other, and she’s goin to split
apar’! I will only give my okay to go to this school if you will keep
her in that school until her education is done proper.”

“But what about Monsieur Franz? I thought he was tutoring your daughter
as he does my children? Has he not been taking those responsibilities
seriously?”

“Oh. He’s fine. He’s got Regina talking foreign, and measuring angles,
but that’s not the education she needs to get both feet in the new
boat!”

Albrecht could not contain his confusion. “Mother. What are we talking
about?”

The Queen turned to her son with a smile. “Perhaps it is because you are
still too young, or because you have never been a parent. What Regina’s
mother is worried about is that all the exposure to our teas, and our
conversation has made Regina ill equipped to return happily to a
downstairs role. But all the tutoring in French and Euclid will not suit
her for an upstairs role where the important knowledge is more of
manners and gestures, and knowing who knows whom, and how they will
react to seeing Lady Whosit seated next to the Earl of Somewhere at
Sunday service. Regina can navigate the unspoken downstairs’ world
because she has been educated in its unspoken regulations, but she does
not know, and will never learn from Monsieur Franz our upstairs culture,
and so you and your brothers and sisters and me, and especially Mr.
Goldthread have forcibly uprooted one foot from its secure place in the
punt and placed it insecurely in another. Regina’s mother wants us to
give that foot some stability. She wants us to provide the further
education in mores that will enable Regina to stand in either punt, in
either world, stand on her own two feet if you will, in the boat of her
choosing. Isn’t that it Dear?”

“Yes ’Mum.” and Regina’s Mother gave a small bow here.

“You realize when you ask this that this is a *residential* school? She
would have to live there. Coming home only on holidays and for
vacations? That it will *change* her in ways neither of us can truly
foresee. She may never be able to stand on both feet in the downstairs
again?”

“Don’ you think I know that? Don’ you think I know what it will cost me?
But isn’t it the best I can do for my girl?” And here Regina’s mother’s
tone grew loud, almost angry, and Regina worried how the Queen would
respond.

“I did not know all that. But now I do. And I think there is much more
in common between the Mother and the Daughter than I had heretofore
recognized. Come here my Dear. Let us share a worried embrace.” And now
Albrecht’s mouth opened again in surprise as he watched his Mother, the
Queen, move forward and embrace Regina’s teary mother who hugged her
back with one arm while shaking Regina’s shoulder with the other.
“You’re going to help the Queen, and you’re going to help your country,
and you’re goin to get an education my sweet. You’re going to get an
education!” she repeated. Then Regina stood and they all three hugged
each other.
