# ...—...

Stunned ’Gina walked slowly to her room. She looked neither right nor
left. She ascended stairs without attention. With her gaze up and to the
right she was in a state of reflection. The knife scared her, but it
also focused her. Her fear before had been diffuse, and therefore had
been distracting. Now her fear was pointed, and she knew who to fear:
Jimmie.

Or did she? Had he tried to kill her or warn her? Had he mistaken her
for someone else? She thought he had recognized her, but maybe he had
recognized her as someone else? ’Gina was sitting now at her vanity. A
candle burned on the table beside her. She caught her own gaze in the
mirror. She stared at her face.

Jimmie. He had “stolen her nose”, and pulled coins from her ears. He had
endless handkerchiefs in his cheeks, and could read Cook’s mind. He knew
more knock-knock jokes than there were days, and he had played with her
when she was bored, the little, lonely girl in a household of busy
servant folk. On days when carriage calls were not expected he would
polish the carriage brass and then, when no one was looking, he would
show her his “circus knife.” And he taught her how to hold it and to
throw it. How could he not have recognized her? She looked again in the
mirror. Was she so different? No. Her hair was clean and brushed, and
her clothes were pretty silk, but she was what she had always been, the
servant’s daughter: Regina. Jimmie could not mistake her.

Could it have been a warning? The Swiss Guard carried knives, but theirs
were different. She had seen Hans’ and Rene’s. Theirs were not circus
blades. Not so flat nor large. It was not a Swiss Guard knife. For all
the time she had observed the men there was not one time when she had
seen any of the Guards speak to Jimmie, and they were a close crew. They
would not have had a member in the Queen’s household and not have
acknowledged that man unless... No. There was no unless. He could not
have been a guard.

Jimmie was a spy. When you admitted it to yourself, it was so obvious. A
friendly, flirtatious footman who spent his time loitering around the
servants’ kitchen gossiping with the maids. He was someone that everyone
loved to see. He told knock-knock jokes to children, pinched the cheeks
of maiden maids, and told bawdy stories of his roust-about days to the
black suited men over gin on Sunday afternoons. Everyone spoke to
Jimmie, and Jimmie spoke to everyone. The staff always described his
gift of gab, but as ’Gina thought more about the conversations she had
heard she remembered how, while they had always begun with a Jimmie
story, they always ended with the others trying to match him and top him
with stories of their own. Those that did not have his life of adventure
frequently met the challenge by reciting household gossip of upstairs
life. Visitors and parties. Comings and goings. With a bit of deduction
a person could learn a lot about the Queen’s plans from
cross-referencing the servants sightings.

The dinner. The interruption. The Ambassador’s abrupt panic. The Queen
had been to town just a few streets away. Jimmie must have visited the
embassy and some important warning had been relayed to the Ambassador’s
ears. Jimmie could pass along his secrets. Whenever the carriage came to
town Jimmie came to town. When the Queen or her agents traveled on her
behalf Jimmie was there to observe and report. An overnight stay at some
cousin’s castle gave an opportunity for meeting people and filing
reports. The more ’Gina reflected, the more she saw that Jimmie was the
spy. The more convinced she became that Jimmie was the spy, the more she
knew this meant that Jimmie knew who she was. He obviously had not known
she was at the Andalonian ambassador’s residence. He had been too
surprised for that, but he knew where she was now, and he could easily
guess why. And even if he was wrong or uncertain, the fact she was in an
Andalonian carriage with a Kaiserkönig crest could not lead him to any
innocent conclusions.

The Andalonian carriage. The smile and the wink at Diego. He had been to
the Andalonian embassy several times. It was the Andalonians! Jimmy was
passing his information to the Andalonians. The Ambassador was ambitious
and patriotic and opportunistic. He was spying on the Queen, and Jimmie
was his agent. Or something like that. Was it the whole family? Diego?
Helene?

Probably not Diego. At least not knowingly. He had been too ready to
talk of Jimmie and their relation, but then he also stole her letters
for the head mistress. It was no longer possible to explain that as
jealousy or paranoia on the part of Miss Bostick. Diego had been given
instructions and Miss Bostick must somehow be connected with the plot.
And what a connection she would be. Head Mistress of a school for all
the rich, royal, and diplomatic children of the capitol. A place from
which to watch, and pry, and spy, and put together pieces. Who was
friends with whom? Which families vacationed together? Just as Jimmie
could listen to the Castle gossip, so could Miss Bostick listen to the
school’s. And like jigsaw puzzle masters they could put the pieces
together and see a greater picture. Were they together or two separate
threads of Andalonian intrigue?

While ’Gina was eventually to layout her conclusions in this clear and
linear way, it had been the work of hours of surmises and deductions.
Retreats and re-calculations. She heard the church bells tolling three,
and she did not know what to do. How was she to alert the Queen?

Perhaps she could just leave. Walk the way to the castle keeping low and
within a few hours she could be home again and tell her story. She rose
and stretched, and walked to gaze out the window at the moon lit street
below. She saw a shadow waver. A man was in the gap where Willie had
been. A match flared and lit a stranger’s face. Coincidence? Then
another stranger came, dark clad, cap low, trailing smoke from his
cigarette. The first man gestured without looking towards her window,
then towards the entrance way below. The second put his hand upon the
shoulder of the first and patted. The first man nodded and walked away
down the street and the second slid into the alcove and for a few
minutes more ’Gina observed the intermittent glow of the cigarette tip
as it brightened with each breath.

She returned to sit at her desk and dropped her face into her hands. For
awhile she sobbed deeply, and then she slammed a fist upon the table.
There still must be a way. She began to think.

Listening to the church bells strike four she paused with that upward
gaze of concentration that the Queen had noticed and which she shared
with her mother. Than she hurriedly reached for pen and stationary and
began to write.

When the letter was addressed and sealed she went once again to the
window, and stared down at the empty moon lit street and the dark
alcove. There was no sign of anyone. Perhaps she had been too nervous.
Too young. Too suspicious. Too scared by two men on the way home from
the pub asking each other for a light. Then she detected movement, and a
figure jogged along the pavement. It slowed and walked the last few
steps to the dark alcove where a man now appeared. Even from this
distance, and in the dark, she recognized the jogging man as Jimmie. For
one thing he was still in his footman’s livery. He was in conversation
with the first man when ’Gina decided she could wait no longer.

She could not mail the letter from the school. It would be waylaid by
Diego, or the Head Mistress, and even if they deemed it innocent there
is no reason to suspect that they would post it on without delay. There
should not be a delay. The Queen must know about the spies.

At this juncture, deep in thought, ’Gina heard the slight rap on her
door, then watched it open and closed and saw the tear stained face of
her friend Helene.

“Janus? What is going on? Our house is in a frenzy, and my Father is
cursing you. I have runaway. I don’t understand!”

’Gina looked at the girl, she seemed younger now, eyes puffy, cheeks
shiny and moist with tears. ’Gina felt older. Helene was a paradox.
Could ’Gina trust her? Was Helene her only ally, this daughter of her
enemy? Or just another clever manipulation?

Candle light lit the room and the two girls stared until ’Gina made her
decision and spoke.

“I need you to mail this letter.”

Helene looked confused, “What? I don’t understand. I don’t understand.
What is going on? What has happened? Tell me Janus. I thought we were
friends. I don’t understand.”

“Helene! Listen! If you are my friend, and I truly need one, you will do
what I ask without understanding. I need you to mail this letter now.
Now!” She yelled at teary-eyed, confused Helene.

Helene came closer. Spoke quietly. “I don’t understand.”

“There isn’t time to understand. You only need to understand if you are
my friend.”

“I am your friend Janus, but why do you need me to mail a letter in the
middle of the night. Why do I have to do it? Just drop it in the slot in
the hall.”

“Because people want to kill me.”

Helene’s eyes opened wide, and her mouth drooped open too. ’Gina guessed
that poor Helene thought this had something to do with her being a
Kaiserkönig. While ’Gina felt bad to deceiving her friend, there was no
time for explanations now. “Do you trust me Helene? Can I trust you?
Will you risk all for a friend?” A true statement, but a manipulation.
’Gina did not enjoy the deceit, but was moved by her desperation.

Helene responded, “I would risk all for you friend,” at which ’Gina
kissed her on the cheek, and wiped at her own sour tears. “Take this
letter,” ’Gina said. “And go to a letterbox as far away from school as
you can get before dawn; where no one will see you post it. Drop it in
and hurry back.”

As ’Gina spoke this last, Helene had already begun to turn around with
the letter pressed tight in her hands. ’Gina gave her one more, brief,
hug, and watched as Helene cracked the door, spied along the hallway in
both directions, and then slid out into the black hall, and disappeared.

Alone in her dimly lit room, and shadowed by dark thoughts, ’Gina locked
the door. ’Gina snuffed the candle and all became black. ’Gina could see
a faint light at the window from the setting moon. She hurried over to
the window. Standing to the side, ’Gina saw the two shadowy men arguing.
Then Jimmie slapped the man hard, and both figures froze. She watched
the first one retreat to his alcove, and Jimmie began to cross the
street towards the entrance to the school. Half way across the street he
was met by a figure coming out of the school. It was the Head Mistress,
still in her bed clothes; with only a coat over her shoulders. There
were hurried words between the Head Mistress and Jimmie. ’Gina could not
make out what was said. Then the Head Mistress and Jimmie both turned
towards the school.

’Gina exhaled one large sob in her first panic. He was coming for her.
Jimmie was coming for her. The sign. The sign. They said someone would
be watching for her. She raced across to her bed sheet and using the
sheers from her sewing kit she cut one long white strip and then tore it
in two. She used a hair pin to stick one end of one of the strips in one
corner of her window, and then used a second hair pin to stick the other
end in the cross corner making one half of her rescue sign in the
window. ’Gina reached for the other strip when she heard the steps
outside her door. “May we come in Regina?” And she heard Jimmie laugh.
When he discovered the door was locked he cursed.

Regina did not know what to do. They would kill her, she felt certain of
that, but would they also make her talk? She would she tell them of the
Queen, and Hans, and all the plans? She did not want to die, but more
than that she did not want to fail the Queen. ’Gina wanted to beat these
people. ’Gina knew they would just use her as one more puzzle piece in
their plot to torment her Queen: the mother of her friends Albrecht and
Mietzie; the leader of her land; and the woman who ever worried how to
protect the people of her realm. ’Gina would not let down her Queen.
’Gina heard a crash upon the door, and more swearing. Another crash and
the hinges began to give. Another crash. Heavier. The Head Mistress and
Jimmie together were throwing themselves at the door. ’Gina saw the top
hinge begin to pull from the jam. ’Gina looked about in a hurry, but not
in panic. She was now alone in thought and purpose. She saw at once the
matchbox on her vanity. She tore it open and poured the cubes into her
hand. Six came out, but she managed to hold on to only two. When the
next crash came two bodies cascaded to the floor. ’Gina brought hand to
mouth and sucked both cubes in. She felt the sweetness rest on her
teeth. She stood facing the angry faces of Miss Bostick and Jimmie.

“Tell us girl! What have you done? What have you told the Queen.”

’Gina stood silent. Not because she was afraid to answer, but because
the cubes had not yet dissolved and she was afraid to let them see.

Jimmie slapped her hard, and ’Gina worked to keep her mouth shut. It was
working. When she looked again both figures had become wavy.

“Dammit Girl. No games. Our heads are in play. What have you told the
Queen?”

Jimmie grabbed her hand and laid it on the vanity. He held it by the
wrist and with his other hand brought out a knife, a bigger one than the
one he threw, and held it over the end of her little finger. Then he
looked at her with a questioning air. His gaze met hers. When she said
nothing he cut down in a quick movement that severed the tip of her
finger. The tip fell to the floor, and was followed by a small stream of
red. ’Gina did not feel the pain she expected. She did not feel much of
anything. Her perception was of a slowed down version of events, as if
she were watching a play. It replayed. The tip of her finger detached.
It fell to the carpet. Then all that ’Gina sensed was darkness and
silence.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The girl melted in Jimmie’s arms and he let her drop to the floor where
she fell upon her severed finger tip.

“What have you done!” Miss Bostick screamed at him.

With his anger at Regina’s fainting, his perceived failure, and Miss
Bostick’s scolding, he struck back with his empty hand making a mighty
slap across the Head Mistress’s face. The sound of the slap seemed to
absorb all other sounds, and the two stared at each other. Jimmie saw
blood at the corner of Miss Bostick’s lip, and nodded at her. “You’re
right. That one weren’t deserved nor fairly signaled. You are owed one.”

Miss Bostick reached back and with her open right hand and swung as hard
as she could. She connected with his face. Immediately her hand print
appeared as a pink blotch on his white cheek. Shortly thereafter a small
trickle of blood ran down from a cut in his lip. The two stared at each
other. Then, without a sign, they leaned in and kissed.

Pulling back Miss Bostick asked, “Is she dead?”

“No. Can’t be.” replied Jimmie. “Not from losing a bit of her little
finger. Must have fainted.”

“Well then pick her up, and let’s go.”

Jimmie sheathed his knife. Scooped up the little girl, swung her over
his shoulder, and followed Miss Bostick out of the room.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Helene was just about ready to leave the school when she heard movement
on the steps. She stepped into a dark doorway and watched the Head
Mistress fly by at a run her bed clothes streaming. Frozen by her fear
of being expelled; Helene still had not quite come to believe the
extremity of Janus’s claims, she stood there still when Miss Bostick
returned with Jimmie. Helene had seen this man. He visited the Embassy
and did tricks, but now his face was a glower. Anger shone, and threat,
and menace. Helene believed all Janus said now, but her fear was so
great she could not move. Helene heard the pounding on Janus’s door, and
the screaming of the name Regian. Helene was scared by the threatening
tone, and confused; who was Regina? Helene did not have time to puzzle
this out before she heard the first crash of Jimmie trying to force the
door. Helene stepped out slightly from the shadows. She spied along the
hall. While confusion remained, doubts were gone. Her friend was in
danger. Her friend. The girl that had stuck up for her and Diego when no
else would. The only girl who would dare face Miss Bostick. That girl,
that friend had given her a responsibility, a responsibility that might
be of life and death importance. Helene shrunk back into the shadows.
Then she heard the crack of wood splintering. Helene stepped out. She
heard the next charge, louder, and the thunk and tumble of bodies on the
floor. Helene’s legs found life, and she raced toward the school’s
entrance, and down its front steps.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Willie shivered and winced. Since the big men had come and taken his
viewing spot, Willie had been forced to watch ’Gina’s window from a less
comfortable spot. The only other shielded location on the street that
Willie had been able to find was inside the doorway of a darkened home a
little further down the street. The big men came and went. Willie did
not feel he could move or shift his position for fear of giving himself
away. He did not know who they were or why they were there. He reasoned
that if Albrecht had sent them, Albrecht would have told them about him.
Since they did not seem to know about him, they didn’t come from
Albrecht. To Willie that meant that they were not to be trusted.

Willie was so tired. He had been on the street almost constantly.
Occasionally he had drunk from the fountain. One of the woman who lived
on the street and had often seen him there took him for a foundling and
occasionally left him stale bread with a bit of cheese, only slightly
moldy. Willie was grateful for her generosity. He knew he would have
been excused if he had gone to find food or to wash himself, but he
could not do it. He knew that what he was being asked to do was
important. He did not know what it was exactly, or why it was he who had
been tasked. But he would not let Albrecht down. He might not be a
soldier like Albrecht, or a Swiss Guard like Hans, but that did not mean
he was worth less or that his duty did not matter. It was important, and
it was his responsibility. Over the last weeks Willie had grown thinner
and dirtier watching Regina through her window. Only when he knew she
should be in class did he allow himself a few hours sleep back at the
stables where he would brush and walk Albrecht’s horse, and maybe have a
bite to eat from the stable master. But for the rest of the day he was
in one crack or another on Regina’s street staring at her window.

Willie heard the men arguing. Willie thought one of the voices sounded
familiar, but he could not place it or understand what was said. There!
What was that? The first half of an X was clearly swathed across ’Gina’s
window. What did that mean? Why did she stop? Was she in trouble or not?
What was he supposed to do? He came out of his hiding place now and he
looked down the street. The man from the alcove had stepped forward too.
Willie and the big man looked at one another and then both looked back
up at the window of Regina’s room. Shadows. Forms. He saw the shadows
whir and then Willie saw ’Gina’s head snap back. He heard a moment later
the clear sound of the slap. Willie bounced on his toes. Was it an ’X’
or not? What was he supposed to do?

The man from the alcove had come a couple of steps closer to Willie, but
he stopped at the sound of the slap and looked back up the window. They
both watched as ’Gina’s shadow slid out of view. Then the two, Willie
and the alcove watcher, turned to look at each other. The man from the
alcove shrugged.

At this moment, a small figure ran from the entrance of the school. Her
light colored clothing caught and reflected the moon light. The alcove
man took two quick steps in her direction, then redirected and raced
into the school building. Willie by reflex, not reflection, chased after
the small running figure.

Willie was gaining on her quickly. He saw that she was smaller and
younger than he was. Willie was surprised. “Stop!” he shouted.

Helene looked over her shoulder. Someone was chasing her. She kept
running.

Willie pushed her from behind, and Helene fell in a sprawl on the ground
scraping her knees and hands, but never giving up her grip on the
letter. “What are you doing? Why are you running? What do you know about
those people and Regina?” Willie shouted at her.

It was that name again. Regina. Helene assumed this boy must be with the
other people since he called Janus by the same, strange name the others
had used. He must not get the letter. Helene ignored his question, and
got up to start running again. Helene made it only a couple of steps
before Willie pushed her down again. “Stay down.” he said. Willie saw
her try to shield something, and he rolled her over to grab at what it
was she held in her hand. Helene scratched at his face, catching him on
the cheek. When Willie pulled back she got up again to run, and this
time Willie pushed her hard and she was thrown back against the wall of
the house behind her. She dropped the letter. Helene was on her hands
and knees gasping. Willie picked up the letter and looked at it. He
could not read much, but he recognized the Kaiserkönig crest, and he
knew, as every child knew from bedtime stories and soldier tales, that
the Kaiserkönig line dreamed of overthrowing the Queen. Somehow this
must fit together. Somehow this must have something to do with the
people who were threatening Regina. This must be one of the letters of
the Kaiserkönigs to one of their spies or assassins. It had been an ’X’;
just not a completed one, because Regina had been interrupted before she
could finish it. Distracted by his thoughts Willie failed to pay
attention to Helene. She leaped on him. She was scratching and clawing.
She was trying desperately to get the letter back. Not out of malice,
but only as a defensive maneuver, Willie ducked and pushed at her
attacking figure. Helene lost her balance. She fell back striking the
back of her head on the pavement. Willie heard her moan and saw her
writhe. He waited no longer, but ran for the stables holding the letter
in his hand.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Willie took Albrecht’s steed from the stall, threw only a bit in its
mouth and mounted bareback. Willie wheeled the horse out of the stables
and clattered down the cobblestones at a trot. Once Willie reached the
dirt track on the edge of town he pointed toward the castle. Willie
assumed his jockey’s stance and whipped the horse with the reins until
it was at a full gallop. Each time the steed slowed Willie prodded it
on. After five miles the steed begun to froth. It shook its head as if
in disappointment with itself. Another five minutes and the horse
stumbled, but it did not fall. Willie wanted to ease off, but he
remembered Albrecht’s words. Willie remembered his duty. He thought
about ’Gina and the desperate, clawing child running with a hidden
letter in the night. He continued to whip his unsteady mount. Faster.
Faster. A few seconds later one of the horse’s legs buckled again. Both
horse and rider went down. Willie had practiced falls, and he tucked and
rolled coming out of the crash with only bruises, but the horse was
lamed. With barely a pause it rose and with a glance at Willie began to
trot lamely toward the castle. Willie mounted it on the run crying; big
huge tears rolled down his cheeks. He resumed whipping the horse with
the reins. Willie yelled. “Damn you. Damn you. Damn you.” It was not
clear who he was damning. “Why did you have to go and do that? Damn you.
Damn me.” It was still not fast enough. The horse strained forward. It
did not need the whip to goad it. It was a warrior’s horse. Willie
kicked with both heels, and the horse broke into a weird limping gallop.
Both rider and mount knew it was not fast enough. It was not fast
enough! Albrecht had told him the mission was more important than the
horse. Willie had always loved this horse, and he had grown to love it
more during this ride: its courage, its strength, its sacrifice, but
Albrecht had said... Duty demanded... Willie slapped the horse again.
Willie kicked at the horse again. The horse sensed it needed to go
faster. It needed to go faster. And it did go faster. The horse trusted
Willie. If Willie needed it to go faster, lame or not, the horse would
go faster. For five more minutes the horse galloped again, with only a
slight limp. Then Willie heard the snap when one of the horse’s forelegs
broke. The horse went down head first propelling Willie forward. Willie
threw himself to the side as thousands of pounds of exhausted beast
cascaded past. Still the horse tried to rise. Tried to trot forward on
its broken leg. Willie heard a second bone snap. The horse knew that
Willie needed it to go fast. It tried to rise again, but neither foreleg
moved as it was supposed to. The horse skidded forward on its knees its
powerful hind legs pushing forward while it neighed in pain and
frustration. Willie screamed. Willie howled. Willie cried. And Willie
ran toward the castle. He could hear the frustrated, tortured whinnying
horse fading behind him valiantly still trying to do its duty; to get
its rider to the castle. Willie ran, and he ran.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The police station in the school quarter was a generally slow and lazy
assignment. Diplomats’ and Royals’ kids tended not to get into too much
trouble, and when they did their parents covered it up. Also, the
parents tended not to tolerate ne’er-do-wells in the neighborhood of
their children, and so riff-raff were soon run out. Thus, finding a
scraped, screaming, and inconsolable child lying on the streets near the
school at dawn was a bit of a novelty. The policeman had guessed at her
identity from his knowledge of the community. They station sent word to
the Andalonian Embassy.

About a half hour after the messenger had been dispatched the Ambassador
appeared at the station. “I believe you are holding my daughter. What
are the charges?”

“Well, there aren’t exactly any charges Ambassador, but ...”

“No charges? Well then release her at once.”

“Now Ambassador, we have to ask...”

Again the Ambassador interrupted. “What are the charges?”

“Well, Sir there are not any charges, but ...”

The Ambassador erupted. “Well then. Have you kidnapped my child? If you
have no charges then release my daughter to me. Now. If you do not, I
will be forced to file a diplomatic protest with the Queen’s Law
Enforcement magistrate describing the illegal hostilities laid against
me and my poor child by your precinct.”

The Desk Sargent stared in disbelief at this speech. The man’s child had
been brought in screaming from the streets and her father was yelling at
him for mistreatment. The Desk Sargent also knew that no one cared what
he thought when it came to diplomatic cases. Those people just did
whatever they wanted.

“As you wish Ambassador. Follow me please.” He led the Ambassador back
into the cells where little Helene laid rocking side to side. On hearing
the door to her cell unlocked, she looked around. Seeing her father
enter she leaped up and said at once. “Oh Papa. Janus ... ” but before
she could say another word he slapped her across the face and told her
to shut up. Stunned, she obeyed, and the Desk Sargent looked away.

The Ambassador reached down and took her hand. “Let’s go,” he said.
“Now.”

The Ambassador led Helene out the front of the police station. The Desk
Sargent followed them to the door, and watched them descend down the
steps to board a carriage with the Andalonian crest. The carriage was
loaded down with trunks and baskets, and trailing behind it a cart also
filled with trunks and a few pieces of furniture. The Desk Sargent
watched the Ambassador pass his daughter into the cramped interior of
the coach, after which he climbed up beside the coachman, who without
further orders jerked the reins and the carriage moved off at a trot.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Goldthread was actually pacing, and it was making Regina’s mother
very nervous. The two Swiss Guards, René and Hans, looked at him, and
looked at each other. Mr. Goldthread caught their glances, and turned
without comment and left the room. Hans closed the door behind the
departing Mr. Goldthread. The tension in the room eased slightly.
Regina’s mother looked at the envelope and the letter in front of her.
The letter that Willie brought had not been a note from spies, and a
puzzled Albrecht immediately brought the note to Mr. Goldthread. It was
clear from Willie’s story that something bad was happening, but it was
not at all clear what it was or what it meant. Albrecht had left Willie
crying in his room where the night staff had brought him. Then Albrecht
had gone in search of Mr. Goldthread. Mr. Goldthread had roused the
guards, and awakened the Queen who sat in her war room ready to plan,
but for what?

The letter Willie brought spoke of stationary.

Breakfast plans were halted. Regina’s mother was summoned. Regina’s
mother sat reading the letter that had been addressed to her by name,
but with the title of Private Secretary of the Countess of Kaiserkönig
and to a standard Kaiserkönig address. The letter was brief and
essentially said that Janus had determined to have new stationary
produced along a new modern pattern that she had observed in the
capitol. ’Gina, writing as Janus, had charged the Secretary to order her
100 sheets. She wanted it produced along the lines of the hand-drawn
model enclosed. And a hand-drawn model was enclosed. A thick sheet of
creme colored hand pressed paper was enclosed. In it’s center, where
normally the writing would go, all was blank. Mr. Goldthread and his men
had gone over this section of the letter repeatedly and thouroughly. The
paper had been held up to the light. No message appeared. The page had
been held over steam. No message appeared. Various reagents of known
invisible inks had been dripped upon its surface. No message appeared.

The page remained blank, or nearly blank; there was the hand-drawn
example of a border that was the model for the stationary to be ordered.
It ran along the perimeter of the page. The decoration had been,
presumably, the cover story for the message hidden in the center, but
there was no message there, or at least no message could be found. Had
Regina not had time to finish her letter? Was it all some horrible
misunderstanding? Was Regina in danger or not? Was the Queen?

After Mr. Goldthread and the cryptanalysts of the Queen’s detachment of
Swiss Guards had spent two hours pouring over the letter and testing it
without results it was shown to the Queen. She had sat in her war room
looking at the envelope and pages.

“You have tested and studied the envelope and first page too Mr.
Goldthread?”

“Yes we have Your Majesty, but if ’Gina had hidden the message there,
there would have been no reason to include an additional page. We
believe therefore, strongly, that that page has been included to
communicate to us the message.”

The Queen continued to stare at the pages that lay before her. “Why do
you think Mr. Goldthread that rather than addressing this letter to her
fake Aunt she chose to address it to her mother by name?”

“She wanted to make sure the post office contact saw it and brought it
here?” Mr. Goldthread said. The Queen raised her eyebrows. “No, Your
Majesty, I do not like that explanation either, but I am afraid I have
nothing better to offer.”

“Did you ever think Mr. Goldthread that she might have addressed it to
her mother, because it was her mother she wanted to see it?”

“No Your Majesty. It had not.” And picking up the envelope, letter, and
sample stationary, he turned and left the room bringing it down into the
Regina’s study room off the kitchen pantry where Regina’s mother now
sat. And where, after depositing the pages, he had begun pacing until he
received the dismissing look from the Swiss Guards.

Regina’s mother stared hard at the pages, and then leaned back sighing.
“I don’t know what I am doing or what I am supposed to do. Is my girl in
danger?”

The Swiss Guard René looked at her squarely. “We do not know for sure,
but we believe it likely. The boy Willie’s story is confused, but it
appears that she was making the signal for extraction when she was
stopped. Although he didn’t know it importance, Willie hurried this
letter on its way to us. It is our best hope at the moment for finding
out what is happening. That is our best hope for helping Regina.”

And so Regina’s mother returned her gaze to the pages. She did not touch
them. She simply looked. Occasionally she would cock her head to one
side, and then it would straighten. The guards simply sat and watched.
Once Mr. Goldthread knocked at the door and looked in. Hans shook his
head and Mr. Goldthread retired.

Regina’s mother fidgeted. Both guards looked up. She stood, and they
stood up. Then she screamed. “I don’t know what to do. I don’t know what
it says. I don’t know what it means. I am just staring and staring, but
I don’t know what it means. I want my baby girl!” And she stared
fiercely at the guard Hans.

Hans calmly walked over to Regina’s mother. He bent down a bit so his
eyes were on the same level as Regina’s mother’s eyes. “Your daughter is
very smart, no?”

“Yes, too smart.” Regina’s mother sighed.

“No,” Hans said. “The apple does not fall far from the tree.”

“What is that supposed to mean?”

“Smart daughters have smart mothers. You will figure it out. Calm
yourself. Focus and be patient. It will come to you. Perhaps a cup of
tea will help?”

Regina’s mother nodded. “Yes. Maybe. A cup of tea would be nice.” She
rubbed her eyes.

Hans nodded, and reached around with his hand groping for the little
rope that would ring the bell for the servant to bring tea.

“No,” Regina’s mother said, “We don’t have those here in the servant’s
quarters, you have to ...” Hans began to walk to the door. “Stop!”
Regina’s mother commanded.

Hans was disciplined. He froze. He and René watched Regina’s mother cock
her head to the side and look up into the sky. They looked at each
other. An idea was coming. “Give me that sheet of paper.” Regina’s
mother ordered. “ No. The other one.” Hans dropped the letter and handed
her the odd piece of sample stationary. Regina’s mother held it. Looked
at it. Rotated it, and seemed to be searching along the perimeter where
there ran the series of small and large circles. “Come with me.” she
said, and the two disciplined soldiers followed her as she ran down the
hall into the servants’ area.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mietzie paced in her room. Since shortly before dawn guards had been
placed in the wing of the royal residence. The children had been
quarantined to their rooms. Mietzie hated it. Why wouldn’t anyone tell
them anything? They were children, true, but not knowing was worse than
knowing. And alone. Mr. Goldthread said it was better if they were not
concentrated, and this was what they had practiced. Still. The little
ones must be crazy with fear, and she herself was very nervous. What was
going on? Could this have anything to do with Regina?

Then Mietzie heard the bell in her room. It was the bell that only she
and Regina used for messaging. It began to ring. Short peel (.) Short
peel (.) Short peel (.) Long peel (-) Long peel (-) Long peel (-) Short
peel (.) Short peel (.) Short peel (.) And then it repeated all again.
Mietzie looked at her door. Mietzie knew that outside guards stood
there. They were under orders not to let her leave. With no hesitation
Mietzie walked over and pounded her fist on the button that opened the
door for servant’s access. The two cats, Queenie and Chevalier, leaped
down from her bed, and when the door was opened wide enough, Mietzie
squeezed through and began to sprint down the corridor with the two cats
trailing right behind.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the bell room René, Hans, and Mr. Goldthread listened as Regina’s
mother repeatedly played an S-O-S on the bell for Mietzie’s room. Then
they heard the slap of bare feet and there came running into the room,
breathing hard, Mietzie followed by Chevalier and Queenie. “Regina!
Where is she? She called me on the bells. She is in trouble.” Mietzie
blurted out.

“It was me Princess,” Regina’s Mother said. “We don’t know where Regina
is or what is going on. I think she sent a message in that code you two
used to use, but I can’t read it. Except for this emergency call.”
Regina’s Mother thrust the stationary sheet at Mietzie while pointing to
the decorative edging. “There. What does it say?”

“I can’t read it,” Mietzie said, “I can only hear it.” She thrust the
card back at Regina’s mother. “Play more of it. Short bells little
circles. Long bells big circles.” Hans took the card and held it so that
Regina’s mother could see, and Regina’s mother began to ring the bell
while Mietzie intoned slowly “J-i-m-m-i-e s-p-y” Regina’s mother gasped
and stopped ringing. René immediately left the room and two more guards
appeared to take his place.

“More,” said Hans. Regina’s mother resumed her ringing. Mietzie said
“A-n-d-a-l-o-n-i-a”

“That’s it. That’s the end of the loop.” Regina’s mother said.

The two new Swiss Guards turned an about face and left. Mr. Goldthread
stood in the door. “Andalonia,” he said “Order the borders sealed. I
will go tell her Majesty.”

“No need. I am here.” And Mr. Goldthread turned around to see the Queen
behind him and Albrecht standing behind her. The Queen strode past Mr.
Goldthread and gave Mietzie a tight bear hug. “Well done little one.
Well done.” Then turning to Regina’s mother, “What a mistake we have all
made wasting your time and talents on cleaning. Brilliant. Just
Brilliant. Well. How do we find Regina?”

Albrecht spoke up. “I have been talking to Willie. I think it likely
that Jimmie and the woman Head Mistress have her. I have sent word for
the school to be searched.”

“Andalonia?” the Queen asked turning towards Mr. Goldthread.

“I think not Your Majesty. It is quite likely that an Ambassador would
pay for information, but kidnapping little girls would be more than they
would bargain for. I don’t think Jimmie will turn out to be an
Andalonian spy, but rather a mercenary looking to sell information to
the highest bidder. In this case it was Andalonia. Andalonia will
disavow all knowledge of the agent. But there are probably more
malevolent forces backing Jimmie.”

“Well we will still expel that Ambassador!” the Queen said angrily.

“I would be very surprised if he had not already left your Majesty. The
Andalonians are not ethical, but they are clever, and given to
self-preservation.”

The Queen harrumphed in response.

Mr. Goldthread continued. “In fact your Majesty, I think we will need to
refrain from commenting officially on any these events when the
Andalonians announce a replacement for ’health reasons’.”

The Queen glowered, but she did not dispute. “But what about Regina?”

“Albrecht,” Mr. Goldthread asked. “if you were a criminal abandoned by
your sponsor and trapped in the realm with one of her agents what would
you do?”

Albrecht looked at his mother when he said, “I would keep my prisoner
alive to bargain, and then I would head for the one place where I knew
they would not cooperate with my Mother.”

When Mr. Goldthread nodded, the room intoned together “Ost
Hinterlandia.”

There was silence. Albrecht looked at his Mother, the Queen. “Mother?”
She met his stare, and then nodded, “But not alone boy. Not alone.”
Albrecht nodded at her, raised an eyebrow at the Swiss Guard Hans, who
smiled in return, and then two spun on their heels and ran from the
room.
