# Mucking

Albrecht stood regal and erect before an awed cook. Stunned and open
mouthed, she hastily dropped into a bow. Wisps of white hair worked
their way loose with this uncommonly quick maneuver. The cook’s right
shoulder made mini-spasms as she began to reach up to adjust her loose
hairs, remembered she was before a royal, and stopped. Then she would
feel the tickle of her hair and began to reach again. Then she would
remember the royal, and so on. Then she smelled the sausage beginning to
burn, and again she remembered the royal.

Albrecht opened his mouth to speak, and a bell tinkled. He closed his
mouth. Opened it again, and again there was a tinkling sound. Though
this time it was of a higher pitch. Nonplussed, Albrecht forgot himself,
and spoke normally.

“Madam, your sausage is burning.”

Cook took this as permission to rise. With a practiced movement she
wrapped her hand in her apron, slid the heavy cast iron skillet to one
side and then made a quick spastic jerk that set all the sausages on a
roll. She arrested their roll with another quick movement and their
uncooked sides were now against the skillet. Albrecht admired her skill.
Again, Albrecht made ready to speak. Again, he was interrupted by
tinkling bells.

“Madam ...” he paused - no bells. “Madam ...” A low tinkle, and then a
high tinkle. He decided to ignore them. “Madam. Her Highness the Queen
has decided that she would like her daughter Mietzie to learn certain
domestic skills and...”

Bells began to toll in alternation low and high, and now the two
original peals where joined in chorus by two more, one each of a lower
and higher note than before. If Albrecht had been able to ignore the
bells before, it became impossible now. He had been practicing his
speech for the last half an hour (the Queen had never before set him a
personal errand on her behalf) and he became befuddled by the clanging.
“Blast it, Madam! Why are those bells ringing?”

“That would be yur bra’s and sistrs, Prince. The bell room is nest’or,
and each of them tones is one of yur sib’s askin fer a tension. See fer
yursel Sir.”

Albrecht turned about and followed the tinkling to its source. There on
the wall hung the servants’ “glockenspiel.” Four bells near the center
were jangling vigorously. Approaching, Albert saw that each was a
slightly different size, and so each a slightly different pitch. The
four bells that rang constantly were now joined in song by one more on
each side. Sandwiched between them, and conspicuous by its stillness,
was a single bell. Above that bell was a name: Mietzie. Sounding more
like a twelve year old than a seventeen year old Albrecht screamed
Mietzie’s name, and began to run up the stairs taking them two at a
time.

As Albrecht came to the nursey hall he saw his siblings standing in
their doors frowning and bickering. Some of the older children yelled
for his assistance, but he passed them by with a wave on his way to
Mietzie’s quarters. Angry, but too out of breath to give vent to it, he
came to her door and saw four chamber maids gathered in respectful
silence as Mietzie lectured them on how to make a bed. Mietzie
cheerfully greeted her brother.

“Albrecht. Good morning.” Mietzie ran around the pile of bedding that
she had heaped on the floor to reach the other side of her bed. There
she tugged slightly at the single sheet that lay on it, and then ran
back to the original side. “I think I have a natural aptitude for this
work. No wonder we need so many staff. Their procedures are so
inefficient. Look at this sheet. It isn’t even long enough to cover from
my head to my toes. I have been trying to adjust it for the last five
minutes. And none of these girls seems to have ever noticed this before.
It’s a good thing I am going to train as a servant, because I will need
to degrade my competencies to fit the position.”

“Mietzie. All the maids know why the sheet doesn’t fit, but being maids
they don’t feel they can tell you. You have it sideways. Look.” And he
grabbed the sheet, spun it about, and with a billow spread it across the
bed. “Furthermore, you have brought the floor to a standstill. Breakfast
is burning. The staff is idle. And our brothers and sisters are playing
Quasimodo with the downstairs message bells. Please do not help anymore
for a moment.” And with a gesture of his head he signalled the staff to
began their work. Two immediately left to tend to the adjacent rooms,
while the two remaining practiced hands quickly tidied up the bed under
Mietzie’s glowering eye.

After the staff had left, Mietzie spoke angrily to Albrecht. “If they
had known I was doing it wrong, they should have told me instead of
standing there like an audience at the opera.” Mietzie did not like the
opera. “I had been practicing for an hour before they got here, and I
did it right every time. I just got confused when they were all watching
me.”

Albrecht smiled. He respected his sister’s enthusiasm. “Mietzie, of
course they didn’t tell you. We have trained the staff to be silent and
respectful. None of these women will feel comfortable correcting you.”

“What about Monsieur Franz?”

“Well, he is a tutor. His role as a servant is to question and to teach,
but even he is narrow in his practice. He will chide your isosceles
triangle, but not your manners, or your opinion on the household. And he
doesn’t know how to be a personal servant himself, so he cannot teach
you how to be one.”

“But then how can I learn? ’Gina needs me.”

Albrecht had his doubts about that, but kept those to himself. The
silence of the watching maids had been a lesson for him if not for
Mietzie.

“Yes. How will you learn to be a servant? We need someone to teach you
to do what is to be done when you are told to do it. We need someone who
has not been taught to keep silent when a royal approaches. Someone
obediant, but unschooled in the ways of the household, someone ... like
Willie. Sister, change your shoes to boots. I have the perfect teacher
to instruct you in the ways of servitude.”

Half an hour later Albrecht led Mietzie across the large back lawn
toward the riding stables. There he introduced her to Willie. Willie was
standing in a horse stall with a shovel in his hands. He was small for
his age, which Mietzie would have guessed as about the same as her own.
He beamed a smile, and his blond hair went in every direction. He wore a
dirty shirt with an old fashioned knotted collar under some sort of
military jacket that was clearly much too big. His pants where nearly
invisible because the hem of the jacket scrapped the top of the high
boots he wore.

“Willie. This is Mietzie.” Albrecht purposely avoided referring to her
as Princess Mietzie. “She needs to learn some basic skills for being a
servant, and I have brought her here for your instruction.”

Willie’s smile broadened. “Sure thing Prince.” His voice was easy and
musical. He showed respect, but not deference with his attitude. “And
there is no time like the present. Here you go Mitz’.” And he extended
his arm to offer her the shovel, while he stepped back out of the stall.
“Start by scooping these apples into that barrow.”

Mietzie turned to her brother, but before she could speak he
interjected. “You heard the boy Mitz’. Start shoveling apples. I’ll be
back to check on your progress later. Thanks, Willie.”

Mietzie was stunned by the rapidity of this transition, and her brother
had already turned and started to walk away when she managed to sputter
out her question. “What kind of apples grow in stables?”

“Not the kind you would want to eat I’ll guarantee you. Now come on. We
don’t have all day. Start shoveling.” And Willie scaled the stable’s
side to sit himself on the highest rung.

Mietzie cautiously entered the stable holding the shovel out before her
as a weapon.

“Their not the kind that bite either.” said Willie.

“There are no apples in here there is only horse ...” she sought for a
sufficiently genteel, but still accurate, word. “droppings.”

“We call them apples.” Willie said with a laugh. “And they need to go in
that barrow. You must have spent all your life working inside not to
know that. I guess you must have really cheesed one of the indoors
bigwigs to get sent out here.”

And Mietzie looked up to see the her brother’s now small figure walking
back across the lawn toward the castle. “Yes. I guess I must have.” And
then she bent over and gently slid her spade under one small dropping.

“They don’t move either.” Willie said. “Go faster.” And he laughed when
she frowned at him. “You can give me snake eyes all you want sister, but
when you get sent down to learn how to muck stalls I know I ain’t got
much to be a feared of.”

“I’m not mad at you. I am mad at ...” and then Mietzie realized all at
once that Willie did not know she was a Princess “him.” And she used a
flip of her head to gesture at Albrecht.

“Oh, he isn’t a bad one as royals go. Always treats me fair, and he
knows his horses. Not like some of the others that treats ’em like they
were disposable. Prince Albrecht rides them with respect, and he sits a
fine horse. Now seriously, let’s go or we won’t get done. I’ll show you
once. You’re just using your arms. You’ll get too tired that way. Back
and legs. Back and legs.” He jumped down, took the shovel, and made two
smooth swoops into the wheelbarrow. “Now you try.” And he jumped back up
to his perch on the top rung of the stable’s wall.

Channeling her anger into her motions, Mietzie tried to imitate Willie’s
smooth motion, but instead of landing her scoop into the barrow she
accidentally sprayed an arc around the stable. She streaked her dress
and painted a line on the stable wall that crossed Willie’s boots.
Gazing, horrified at herself and at Willie’s boots, she stammered out an
apology.

Willie was laughing again. “I shoulda seen that coming. No worries.
That’s why we wear boots and take a weekly bath. Now keep at it. I’ll go
get another shovel and we’ll work on it together.”

They finished mucking the stall together, and then they each began on
another. Willie took charge of moving the horses from the dirty stalls
to the clean ones while Mietzie continued to shovel. He also tried not
to make her feel bad, but he still did four stables in the time it took
her to do one.

“Now we put in fresh hay, and this isn’t apple picking anymore. This
’fork will put a hole through your foot the size of a finger, so be
careful.” And after Willie handed her the pitchfork he watched her
carefully. He was attentive and mimed the motions necessary for Mietzie
to safely stab a bunch of hay and discharge it into a cleaned stable.
When Mietzie had done one stable, Willie brought her with him to place
her hand along side his as they led a large, beautiful horse back into
its clean stall. Willie spoke to the horse as they walked. Willie calmly
mumbled little nothing phrases as he gently patted the side of the
horse’s neck with his freehand.

“This is Albrecht’s horse.” Willie told her after she had latched the
stable gate. “And now we get a break. Did they give you anything for
lunch before they kicked you out of the big house? No? Well, I guess we
can share mine today, but I’ll get the stable master to let ’em know
that if they are going to keep sending you down here they got to feed
you.”

“Because the apples aren’t very nutritious are they.” Mietzie said with
a tired smile as they sat on a stack of fresh hay by the main door into
the stables.

“Well I don’t know what tritious means, but no, I wouldn’t want to dine
on them apples.” Willie laughed with her.

“It is very generous of you to share your lunch with me.” And Mietzie
meant it, but she was having a little trouble figuring how to begin
eating the hunk of bread she held in one hand or the small share of cold
beef congealed in fat she held in the other.

“We staff have to stick together. That’s all. Fairs fair. We can’t just
ring a bell whenever we’re hungry can we?” Mietzie’s faced reddened when
he said this.

“And even if we could,” Mietzie said, “maybe we shouldn’t.”

Willie took a big bite of his beef, and with his mouth full said to her,
“What you waitin’ for Mitz? Knife and fork?” and Willie laughed again

While Willie munched away, Mietzie cautiously nibbled at the bit of
bread she held. She did not have her usual appetite, and returned the
hunk of meat to Willie with thanks. As they ate, she asked him, “Why do
you do this Willie. Work so hard for cold meat and boots caked in ...
stable stuff.”

“*Stable stuff.* I like that. Well what else would I do, starve? You
want to eat. You got to work. And I like horses, and the big house
treats me fair. Sometimes the horses need exercising when the house is
away, and sometimes they let me help with that. No one else I know has
ever ridden a horse for anything but plowin. I get to ride for pleasure.
And they treat me fair here. No one hits me as long as I do as they tell
me. Do they hit you in the big house?”

“No. I have never been hit in the big house.” Mietzie replied, but
wondered if there had been times that she may have deserved it. “It’s
easy to forget about here, when you are in there.”

“Oh. Don’t fret. Albrecht is fair. I’ll bet they have you back at your
old job before you know it. Least ways cause you’re not very good at
this one.”

Mietzie laughed with him, and leaned her head back into the straw to
rest until they had to start again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Willie saw Albrecht start across the lawn he went out to meet him,
and spoke quietly. “Prince Albrecht. I don’t think you should keep that
girl you brought out here in the stables. She ain’t suited to it.”

“Giving you too much trouble too, Willie?”

“No. She works hard. She just ain’t trained to it. She fell asleep at
lunch, and when I went to wake her I saw her hands were all bloody. I
shouldn’t’a made her do so much shoveling I guess, but I ain’t never
known anyone with hands that dainty. How could she do any washing or
cleanin without her gettin a bit more sturdy? So, I was worried, and I
let her sleep.”

Willie and Albrecht walked together to stand by Mietzie sleeping on the
hay stack. “She does work hard Willie. She just has a very different job
than you, and it isn’t one that has had her cleaning or washing or
mucking. She’s actually my sister, Princess Mietzie.”

“Oh. Oh. Oh.” Willie jogged in a circle while repeating “Oh.” “I didn’t
know Albrecht. Honest I didn’t. She didn’t say nothing. I would have
never...”

Albrecht interrupted. “I know you didn’t know Willie. That’s why I
brought her out here. I wanted her to learn what being a servant wis
really like. What I did not think is that she would keep quiet and do
the work. I expected her to come storming back to the house flinging
horse apples hours ago.”

“She did fling some at me.” Willie said, “But it was accidental, and she
flung more on herself anyway.”

“And she did work hard?” Albrecht asked.

“Harder than I did me first day.” Willie said. It was an exaggeration,
but Willie was generous that way.

“Well, well Willie. Looks like both Mietzie and I learned some important
things today.” Albrecht leaned over and gently jogged his sister’s
shoulder. She stirred and asked sleepily, “Time to muck some more?”
Then, “Albrecht, what are you doing here?”

“No more mucking today little sister. Let’s get you home, washed up, and
these hands looked at.”

“But, Willie and I aren’t done.”

“Well,” Willie said, “Actually, we are. I let you sleep, and things kind
of go faster when you’re’nt helping. But you’re welcome to help if you
want to.”

“That’s nice Willie. Maybe later.”

A very sleepy, aching Mietzie began to walk toward the castle.

Willie looked up at Albrecht, “I ain’t goin get in trouble for workin
her like that, am I Albrecht. Oh, She must hate me so. I kinda thought.
Well ... never mind, but am I in trouble Albrecht? I only did what you
told me.”

“You are not in trouble Willie. In fact I owe you a favor. And another
fact: not only do I not think Mietzie hates you, I’ll bet you now have a
friend in high places.” And with that Albrecht trotted to catch up to
his sister. He put his arm around her shoulders. A gesture he used to do
when he was younger, but that he had come to feel undignified when he
turned 17. Now he didn’t care. It again felt right.
